ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On February 23, 2011, the Parent Company entered into the Company Order and BankAtlantic entered into the Bank Order with the OTS, the Parent Company’s and BankAtlantic’s primary regulator (See “Business-Recent Developments” for a description of the terms of the Orders). Any material failure by the Company or BankAtlantic to comply with the terms of the Orders could result in additional enforcement actions by the OTS and/or the imposition of fines. For example, if BankAtlantic does not meet the capital ratio requirements in the Bank Order, BankAtlantic would be required to submit a contingency plan that is acceptable to the OTS and that would detail steps to be taken by BankAtlantic that would lead to a potential sale of BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic would be required ti implement the contingency plan upon written notification from the OTS. Further, efforts to comply with the Orders may have material adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company. Our recent financial performance and the regulatory actions by the OTS, combined with continued capital and credit market volatility, may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has incurred losses of $145.5 million, $185.8 million and $202.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income, while at the same time 24 BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. The Parent Company contributed $28 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company had $12.2 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of the Parent Company also holds a portfolio of approximately $13.7 million of non-performing loans, net of reserves, $2.8 million of performing loans and $10.2 million of real estate owned which it could seek to liquidate, the Parent Company’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. The Parent Company’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The entry into the Orders may also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The Parent Company may not be able to provide additional capital, as needed, to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic may not be able to raise needed capital directly. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to meet the higher capital requirements under the Bank Order would cause BankAtlantic to fail to comply with the Bank Order and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. In light of the need for the Parent Company to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, as well as the anticipated imposition of capital requirements on thrift holding companies under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Parent Company has and will continue to evaluate raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions, through a rights offering or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the Parent Company level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering up to $75 million of our Class A Common Stock and/or other securities in the future. We currently have $55 million remaining on this shelf registration statement. Additionally, in September 2010, the Parent Company filed a separate registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC for registering $125 million of Class A Common Stock. The Form S-1 registration statement has not yet been declared effective. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. As a result, our shareholders bear the risks of future offerings at the Parent Company level reducing the price of our Class A Common Stock, and diluting their holdings in the Company, and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. Additionally, depending on the amount of shares issued in any future offering, the Company’s ability to use its NOLs in future periods may be substantially limited. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in BankAtlantic’s non-performing assets and provision for loan losses over the past three years. The housing industry has been in a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s 25 loan portfolio included $305.7 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us very susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.1 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 64% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has exposure to further declines in the Florida real estate market. As of December 31, 2010: (i) the “builder land bank loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 4 loans aggregating $10.6 million, all of which were on non-accrual; (ii) the “land acquisition and development loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 24 loans aggregating $118.8 million, of which thirteen loans totaling $61.9 million were on non-accrual; (iii) the “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 3 loans aggregating $3.5 million, none of which were on non-accrual. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Parent Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2010 was $14.5 million, including $3.7 million, $3.6 million and $1.6 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans”, respectively. Market conditions have resulted in, and may in the future result in, our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current depressed economic environment continues or deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial and construction and development real estate loan portfolio are approximately $781.6 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial land loans is dependent on the success of the real estate project. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial non-residential loans is dependent upon maintaining tenants through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2011 which could result in falling rents. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 10 large lending relationships totaling $266 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. The Parent Company has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Parent Company began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated 26 debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of $28.2 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow the Parent Company to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and the Parent Company anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period, the Parent Company will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that the Parent Company elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, the Parent Company would owe approximately $74 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2010, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase, the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount the Parent Company would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. BankAtlantic obtained a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges could reduce our fee income. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income historically has been overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s new rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, which became effective July 1, 2010, had a significant adverse impact on our service charge income during the year ended December 31, 2010 and this impact is expected to continue in 2011. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has established a consumer protection agency which may further limit the assessment of overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior, modification of our service charge practices as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could also result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Further, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees. The reduction in deposit account fee income during 2010 had an adverse impact on our earnings and further reductions during 2011 would likewise impact our earnings. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. Currently, we believe the key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to the thrift supervisory structure, including the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the OCC; • changes to regulatory capital requirements at the holding company level; • creation of new government regulatory agencies; • limitations on federal preemption; • limitations on debit card interchange fees; • changes in insured depository institution regulations; and • mortgage loan origination and risk retention. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. 27 The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. See “Regulation of Federal Savings Associations-BankAtlantic-The Dodd-Frank Act” for a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $10.1 million. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. In addition, BankAtlantic’s annual insurance rates are expected to increase in 2011 based on the results of its latest regulatory risk profile. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $22.0 million at December 31, 2010. If the economy worsens and the number of bank failures significantly increase, or if the FDIC otherwise determines that increased premiums are necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. The Parent Company and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and the Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Parent Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS, among other things, can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we have not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, capital requirements may be imposed on savings and loan holding companies in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act may, among other things, eliminate the status of a “savings and loan holding company” and require us to register as a bank holding company, which would subject us to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the regulatory bodies having authority over us may adopt regulations in the future that would affect our operations, including our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; 28 • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses was $161.3 million which represented approximately 5.08% of total loans and 43.5% of non-performing loans. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $550.2 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consisted of interest-only loans, representing approximately 45% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, these loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately $52.1 million of the loans in this portfolio will begin principal amortization. Monthly loan payments also increase if interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $385.5 million and $331.0 million, or 12.0% and 9.0% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $463.6 million and $379.7 million, or 10.3% and 7.9% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had approximately $38.2 million and $72.9 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We generally do not record interest income on non-performing loans or real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us, which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels, which was the major contributing factor to the imposition by the OTS of the Orders. Our regulators will likely require us to maintain enhanced capital levels until, at a minimum, our levels of non-performing loans and assets are substantially reduced. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. 29 BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its branch network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida has, over the past three years, resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve significantly in the near term. Approximately 74% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may continue to experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, BankAtlantic may not be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which 30 would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, management’s efforts may not be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings, which may not be available in sufficient amounts, or liquidate a portion of its assets, which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $330.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $236.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, BankAtlantic may not be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or to maintain its current expense structure. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Prior to 2009, the Parent Company relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. BankAtlantic has not paid a dividend to the Parent Company since September 2008 and the Bank Order prohibits BankAtlantic from paying dividends to the Parent Company without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. As such, BankAtlantic does not intend to pay dividends to the Parent Company for the foreseeable future. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which have resulted in a significant increase in non-interest expense relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation, an SEC investigation, the Orders and an overdraft fee investigation, as well as litigation arising out of our banking operations including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to service and overdraft fees assessed to their accounts, and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. Additionally, our insurance carrier for claims under our director and officer liability insurance 31 denied insurance coverage for the class action securities litigation on the grounds that the jury found intentional wrongful acts by certain senior executive officers of the Company. While the Company disputes the validity of the denial of coverage, the Company does not expect to receive additional reimbursements for litigation costs associated with class action securities litigation unless it is successful in contesting the denial of insurance coverage. The insurer and the Company have agreed to a tolling agreement where neither party will take legal action related to the insurance coverage dispute through September 1, 2011 or a later date if extended. As such, if the Company is not successful in the appeals process, a potential securities litigation unfavorable judgment could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. Our net interest income was $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $151.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset by lower operating expenses in prior periods. Our ability to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result, further reductions in our earning asset balances in future periods may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may continue to decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and 32 services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party; however, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, all the information provided to us may not be accurate or we may not successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its consumer home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks as increasing unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. 33 Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 27,333,428 shares, or approximately 43%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 71% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 71.6% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents approximately 2% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 487,613 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. 34 A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry over the last several years, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $15 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As of February 28, 2011, the average market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock over the prior 30 trading day period was approximately $1.06, and the Company’s average market capitalization over that period was approximately $65 million. However, the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock is subject to significant volatility and it may decrease in the future so as to cause the Company not to comply with the New York Stock Exchange’s requirement for continued listing. If the Company does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A Common Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A Common Stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 35 