ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Proposed Spin-Off of Real Estate Assets through a Real Estate Investment Trust On November 15, 2012, we announced that we intend to pursue a plan to separate our gaming operating assets and real property assets into two publicly traded companies including an operating entity, PNG, and, through a tax-free Spin-Off of our real estate assets to holders of our common stock, a newly formed publicly traded REIT, PropCo, subject to required gaming regulatory body approvals. Under the plan, PropCo will initially own substantially all of the real property assets and will lease back most of those assets to PNG for use by its subsidiaries, under a "triple net" 35 year Master Lease agreement (including extensions). We face a number of risks in connection with the proposed Spin-Off, including, but not limited to: •if any event, change or other circumstance occurs that results in the termination of the Spin-Off, or otherwise results in a failure to complete the Spin-Off, such occurrence could negatively impact our stock price; •additional legal proceedings may be instituted against us related to the Spin-Off, and those lawsuits could result in settlements or damages that have a material adverse impact on our business or results of operations; •the Company has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service relating to the tax treatment of the separation and qualification of PropCo as a REIT. The private letter ruling is subject to certain qualifications and based on certain representations and statements made by the Company. If such representations and statements are untrue or incomplete in any material respect (including as a result of a material change in the proposed transaction or other relevant facts), the Company may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling. The Company expects to receive opinions from outside counsel regarding certain aspects of the transaction that are not covered by the private letter ruling. •we expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction fees and other costs associated with completing the Spin-Off. These fees and costs will be substantial, as well as significant non-cash charges related to debt issuance write-offs and asset impairment charges, that will have an adverse impact on our results of operations; and •the Spin-Off may divert management's attention from our operations and the pursuit of other potentially beneficial business opportunities as a result of which our results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected. The completion of the proposed Spin-Off is contingent, among other things, on receipt of regulatory approvals, the receipt of final approval by our Board of Directors, execution of definitive documentation, receipt of legal and accounting opinions, raising significant amounts of capital to finance the transaction, and other customary conditions. We may, at any time and for any reason until the proposed Spin-Off is complete, abandon the separation or modify or change the terms of the Spin-Off. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our Charles Town, West Virginia and Lawrenceburg, Indiana facilities, which will face increased competitive pressures in the near term. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 34.1% of our net revenues were collectively derived from our Charles Town and Lawrenceburg operations. Our ability to meet our operating and debt service requirements is substantially dependent upon the continued success of these facilities. The 16 Table of Contents operations at these facilities and any of our other facilities could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: •risks related to local and regional economic and competitive conditions, such as a decline in the number of visitors to a facility, a downturn in the overall economy in the market, a decrease in consumer spending on gaming activities in the market or an increase in competition within and outside the state in which each property is located (for example, the effect on Charles Town due to the casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland which opened on June 6, 2012 and anticipates adding table games in the spring of 2013, the potential opening of a casino in Baltimore, Maryland, and the potential impact on Lawrenceburg of a proposed $400 million casino in nearby Cincinnati, Ohio with an expected opening in March 2013, as well as new racinos in Ohio near our Lawrenceburg property, one of which opened on June 1, 2012, as well as our own Columbus casino, both of which have negatively impacted Hollywood Casino Lawrenceburg); •changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations (including changes in laws and regulations affecting gaming operations and taxes) applicable to a facility; •impeded access to a facility due to weather, road construction or closures of primary access routes; and •the occurrence of floods and other natural disasters. If any of these events occur, our operating revenues and cash flow could decline significantly. We face significant competition from other gaming operations. The gaming industry is characterized by a high degree of competition among a large number of participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos, video lottery, sweepstakes and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming, and other forms of gaming in the U.S. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. Currently, there are proposals that would legalize internet poker and other varieties of internet gaming in a number of states and at the federal level. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including: shopping; high school, collegiate and professional athletic events; television and movies; concerts and travel. Legalized gaming is currently permitted in various forms throughout the U.S., in several Canadian provinces and on various lands taken into trust for the benefit of certain Native Americans in the U.S. and Canada. Other jurisdictions, including states adjacent to states in which we currently have facilities (such as in Ohio and Maryland), have legalized, and are likely to fully implement, gaming in the near future. In addition, established gaming jurisdictions could award additional gaming licenses or permit the expansion or relocation of existing gaming operations. New, relocated or expanded operations by other persons could increase competition for our gaming operations and could have a material adverse impact on us. Gaming competition is intense in most of the markets where we operate. Recently, there has been additional significant competition in our markets as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. As competing properties and new markets are opened our operating results may be negatively impacted. For example, a proposed $400 million casino expected to open in March 2013 in Cincinnati, Ohio will compete in the same market as our Lawrenceburg property, increased competition to our 17 Table of Contents Charles Town and Perryville properties from the opening of the casino complex at the Arundel Mills mall in Anne Arundel, Maryland in June 2012 which is expected to intensify once our competition implements table games in the spring of 2013, the potential opening of a casino in Baltimore, Maryland, a riverboat casino and hotel in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, which opened on September 1, 2012 and had a negative impact our Baton Rouge property, and a casino that opened in July 2011 in Des Plaines, Illinois which negatively impacted our Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet properties. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may have superior facilities and/or operating conditions. We expect each existing or future market in which we participate to be highly competitive. The competitive position of each of our casino properties is discussed in detail in the subsection entitled "Competition" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may face disruption in integrating and managing facilities we may develop or acquire in the future. We expect to continue pursuing expansion opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for acquisition and development of new properties, which evaluations may include discussions and the review of confidential information after the execution of nondisclosure agreements with potential acquisition candidates, some of which may be potentially significant in relation to our size. We could face significant challenges in managing and integrating our expanded or combined operations and any other properties we may develop or acquire, particularly in new competitive markets. The integration of properties we may develop or acquire will require the dedication of management resources that may temporarily divert attention from our day-to-day business. The process of integrating properties that we may acquire also could interrupt the activities of those businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the development of new properties may involve construction, local opposition, regulatory, legal and competitive risks as well as the risks attendant to partnership deals on these development opportunities. In particular, in projects where we team up with a joint venture partner, if we cannot reach agreement with such partners, or our relationships otherwise deteriorate, we could face significant increased costs and delays. Local opposition can delay or increase the anticipated cost of a project. Finally, given the competitive nature of these types of limited license opportunities, litigation is possible. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that if acquisitions are completed, that the acquired businesses will generate returns consistent with our expectations. Our ability to achieve our objectives in connection with any acquisition we may consummate may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain the senior level property management teams of such acquisition candidates. If, for any reason, we are unable to retain these management teams following such acquisitions or if we fail to attract new capable executives, our operations after consummation of such acquisitions could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence of some or all of the above described events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face risks related to our ability to receive regulatory approvals required to complete, or other delays or impediments to completing certain of our acquisitions. Our growth is fueled, in part, by the acquisition of existing gaming, racing, and development properties. In addition to standard closing conditions, our acquisitions are often conditioned on the 18 Table of Contents receipt of regulatory approvals and other hurdles that create uncertainty and could increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a number of challenges prior to opening new or upgraded gaming facilities. No assurance can be given that, when we endeavor to open new or upgraded gaming facilities, the expected timetables for opening such facilities will be met in light of the uncertainties inherent in the development of the regulatory framework, construction, the licensing process, legislative action and litigation. We may face reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn. Our net revenues are highly dependent upon the volume and spending levels of customers at our properties and as such our business has been adversely impacted by economic downturns. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending brought about by weakened general economic conditions such as, but not limited to, high unemployment levels, higher income taxes, low levels of consumer confidence, weakness in the housing market and increased stock market volatility may negatively impact our revenues and operating cash flow. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our financial condition. From time to time, we are defendants in various lawsuits relating to matters incidental to our business. The nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all litigation, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and, in general, litigation can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (see, for example, the lawsuits described in Item 3 below). We face extensive regulation from gaming and other regulatory authorities. Licensing requirements. As owners and managers of gaming and pari-mutuel wagering facilities, we are subject to extensive state, local and, in Canada, provincial regulation. State, local and provincial authorities require us and our subsidiaries to demonstrate suitability to obtain and retain various licenses and require that we have registrations, permits and approvals to conduct gaming operations. These regulatory authorities have broad discretion, and may, for any reason set forth in the applicable legislation, rules and regulations, limit, condition, suspend, fail to renew or revoke a license or registration to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries or prevent another person from owning an equity interest in us. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals. Regulatory authorities have input into our operations, for instance, hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, and numbers and types of machines. Regulators may also levy substantial fines against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have demonstrated suitability to obtain and have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for us to operate our existing gaming and pari-mutuel facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them or demonstrate suitability to obtain 19 Table of Contents any new licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. In addition, the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. As we expand our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or to new areas, we may have to meet additional suitability requirements and obtain additional licenses, registrations, permits and approvals from gaming authorities in these jurisdictions. The approval process can be time-consuming and costly and we cannot be sure that we will be successful. Gaming authorities in the U.S. generally can require that any beneficial owner of our securities file an application for a finding of suitability. If a gaming authority requires a record or beneficial owner of our securities to file a suitability application, the owner must generally apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days or at an earlier time prescribed by the gaming authority. The gaming authority has the power to investigate such an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. Potential changes in legislation and regulation of our operations. Regulations governing the conduct of gaming activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change and could impose additional operating, financial or other burdens on the way we conduct our business. Moreover, legislation to prohibit, limit, or add burdens to our business may be introduced in the future in states where gaming has been legalized. In addition, from time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations or enactment of other adverse regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, in October 2005, the Illinois House of Representatives voted to approve proposed legislation that would eliminate riverboat gambling. If the Illinois Senate had passed that bill, our business would have been materially impacted. In addition, legislation banning smoking was passed in Illinois, Colorado and Pennsylvania in 2008. If smoking bans continue to be enacted within jurisdictions where we operate or seek to do business, our business could be adversely affected. Taxation and fees. We believe that the prospect of significant revenue is one of the primary reasons that jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant revenue based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, local and provincial income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and/or property taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes, and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Compliance with other laws. We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel. We are highly dependent on the services of our executive management team and other members of our senior management team. Our ability to retain key personnel is affected by the competitiveness of our compensation packages and the other terms and conditions of employment, our continued ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies and our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. Changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, generally accepted accounting principles, and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies. These changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. In addition, further regulation of financial institutions and public companies is possible. This could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. Due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. In addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. A failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could have a materially adverse effect on us. For instance, if our gaming authorities, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, our independent auditors or our shareholders and potential shareholders conclude that our compliance with the regulations is unsatisfactory, this may result in a negative public perception of us, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny, monetary penalties or otherwise adversely affect us. Inclement weather and other casualty events could seriously disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of our facilities are subject to disruptions or reduced patronage as a result of severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualty events. Because many of our gaming operations are located on or adjacent to bodies of water, these facilities are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including loss of service due to casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, extended or extraordinary maintenance, flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. For example, in late August 2005, we closed Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Boomtown Biloxi in Biloxi, Mississippi and Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in anticipation of Hurricane Katrina. Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge subsequently reopened on August 30, 2005. However, due to the extensive damage sustained, operations at Boomtown Biloxi and Hollywood Casino Bay St. Louis did not resume until June 29, 2006 and August 31, 2006, respectively. Many of our casinos operate in areas which are subject to periodic flooding that has caused us to experience decreased attendance and increased operating expenses. Any flood or other severe weather condition could lead to the loss of use of a casino facility for an extended period. For instance, Hollywood Casino Tunica was closed from May 1, 2011 to May 25, 2011 due to flooding. In terms of casualty events, on March 20, 2009, our Hollywood Casino Joliet was closed following a fire that started in the land-based pavilion at the facility. On June 25, 2009, the casino barge reopened with temporary land-based facilities, and we began construction of a new land-based pavilion, which opened in late December 2010. 21 Table of Contents The extent to which we can recover under our insurance policies for damages sustained at our properties in the event of future hurricanes and casualty events could adversely affect our business. We maintain significant property insurance, including business interruption coverage, for these and other properties. However, there can be no assurances that we will be fully or promptly compensated for losses at any of our facilities in the event of future hurricanes or casualty events. Our operations in certain jurisdictions depend on management agreements and/or leases with third parties and local governments. Our operations in several jurisdictions depend on land leases and/or management and development agreements with third parties and local governments. If we are unable to renew these leases and agreements on satisfactory terms as they expire, our business may be disrupted and, in the event of disruptions in multiple jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in Iowa, each gaming license is issued jointly to a gaming operator and a local charitable organization ("QSO"). The agreement between our gaming operator subsidiary in Iowa, Belle of Sioux City, L.P. ("Belle"), and its local QSO, Missouri River Historical Development, Inc. ("MRHD"), expired in early July 2012. The agreement with MRHD has not been renewed and negotiations have not been successful. The Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission ("IRGC") concluded that the casino can continue to operate without an effective operating agreement until such time as a hearing is set by the IRGC to decide if the gaming licenses should not be continued. No such hearing has been scheduled at this time. The IRGC announced requests for proposals for a new land-based Woodbury County casino, which is expected to be awarded to a gaming operator and a QSO by April 18, 2013. The Belle is participating in this request for proposals; however, no assurance can be given that the Belle will be selected. See Item 3 below for further discussion on matters which may impact Argosy Casino Sioux City's operations. Similarly, in the Province of Ontario, through CHC Casinos, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage Casino Rama, a full service gaming and entertainment facility, on behalf of the OLGC, an agency of the Province of Ontario. Our current management agreement for Casino Rama, which initially expired in July 2011, has been extended on a month-to-month basis going forward with a 60 days notice period. The OLGC has periodically made statements about exploring other bids and privatization plans for our management contract. As a result, no assurance can be given as to how long the OLGC will continue to engage us to manage the property. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. From time to time, we have incurred and are incurring costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters. To date, none of these matters have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future. In addition, as we acquire properties, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely 22 Table of Contents affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. The Bullwhackers property is located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large area of historic mining activity which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site, it is possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of this property (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, we are aware that there is or may have been soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our properties (such as Colorado and Ohio) resulting from current or former operations. These matters are in various stages of investigation, and we are not able at this time to estimate the costs that will be required to resolve them. Additionally, certain of the gaming chips used at many gaming properties, including some of ours, have been found to contain some level of lead. Analysis by third parties has indicated the normal handling of the chips does not create a health hazard. We have disposed of a majority of these gaming chips. To date, none of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines operated by us at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up to date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. A substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the U.S. in recent years were manufactured by a few select companies. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability. We depend on agreements with our horsemen and pari-mutuel clerks. The Federal Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, the West Virginia Racing Act and the Pennsylvania Race Horse Industry Reform Act require that, in order to simulcast races, we have written agreements with the horse owners and trainers at our West Virginia and Pennsylvania race tracks. In addition, in order to operate gaming machines and table games in West Virginia, we are required to enter into written agreements regarding the proceeds of the gaming machines with a representative of a majority of the horse owners and trainers, a representative of a majority of the pari-mutuel clerks and a representative of a majority of the horse breeders. Effective October 1, 2004, we signed an agreement with the Pennsylvania Thoroughbred Horsemen at Penn National Race Course that will currently expire on January 31, 2016. We had a collective bargaining agreement with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees at Penn National Race Course with respect to pari-mutuel clerks, admissions and Telebet personnel which expired on December 31, 2011. In August 2012, Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees announced that they entered into a "voluntary supervision" agreement with their international union, Laborers' International Union of 23 Table of Contents North America. Currently, we have not received communication from the new union representatives. We also have an agreement in place with Local 137 of the Sports Arena Employees with respect to pari-mutuel clerks and admission personnel at our OTWs that expires on August 31, 2013. At Hollywood Casino at Charles Town Races, we have an agreement with the Charles Town Horsemen that expires on December 31, 2013, and an agreement with the breeders that expires on June 30, 2013. The pari-mutuel clerks at Charles Town are represented under a collective bargaining agreement with the West Virginia Union of Mutuel Clerks, which expired on December 31, 2010 and has been extended on a month-to-month basis while negotiations are in process. Our agreement with the Maine Harness Horsemen Association at Bangor Raceway expired on December 31, 2012. We anticipate having a new agreement in place prior to the commencement of live racing which will occur in May 2013. Our agreement with the Ohio Harness Horsemen Association at Raceway Park expires on December 31, 2013, and our agreement with the Ohio Horsemen's Protective and Benevolent Association at Beulah Park expires on December 31, 2013. Rosecroft Raceway entered into agreements with the Cloverleaf Standardbred Owners Association and Maryland Standardbred Breeder's Association as of July 5, 2011, both of which expire on December 31, 2022, with provisions for earlier termination under certain conditions. If we fail to maintain operative agreements with the horsemen at a track, we will not be permitted to conduct live racing and export and import simulcasting at that track and OTWs and, in West Virginia, we will not be permitted to operate our gaming machines and table games unless the state intervenes or changes the statute. In addition, our simulcasting agreements are subject to the horsemen's approval. If we fail to renew or modify existing agreements on satisfactory terms, this failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. Some of our employees are currently represented by labor unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Given the large number of employees, labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. Particularly, in light of current support for changes to federal and state labor laws, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more successful union organization activity in the future. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt. Although we have lower debt leverage ratios than our domestic gaming competitors, we continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 24 Table of Contents •limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and •result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we plan on incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future related to our proposed Spin-Off of our real estate assets into a REIT. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our revenues and our ability to access favorable financing terms. While we intend to finance expansion and renovation projects with existing cash, cash flow from operations and borrowing under our senior secured credit facility, we will require additional financing related to our proposed Spin-Off of our real estate assets into a REIT. However, depending on then current economic conditions, our access to capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Finally, our borrowing costs under our senior secured credit facility are tied to LIBOR. We currently have no hedges in place to mitigate the impact of higher LIBOR rates and as such significant increases in LIBOR could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The availability and cost of financing could have an adverse effect on business. We intend to finance some of our current and future expansion and renovation projects primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our current senior secured credit facility and equity or debt financings. Depending on the state of the credit markets, if we are unable to finance our current or future expansion projects, we could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expansion, development and renovation projects as well as capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our senior secured credit facility. Depending on credit market conditions, these sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to limit or suspend expansion, acquisitions, development and renovation projects, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $785.0 million that expires in July 2016 via a bank group that is comprised of various large financial institutions with the top four institutions providing over 48% of the facility. If a large percentage of our lenders were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could experience decreased levels of liquidity which could have a detrimental impact on our operations, including being able to fund our current project pipeline. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our senior secured credit facility. 25 Table of Contents Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our senior secured credit facility requires us, among other obligations, to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial tests, including fixed charge coverage, interest coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and $325 million 83/4% senior subordinated notes restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur guarantee obligations, amend debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, make investments, engage in mergers or consolidations, and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default thereunder which could result in an acceleration of such indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for the next year. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including with respect to our indebtedness. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions and/or other expansion opportunities in the future, our cash requirements may increase significantly. As we are required to satisfy amortization requirements under our senior secured credit facility or as other debt matures, we may also need to raise funds to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance the notes, extend or refinance our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in operating results, actions by various regulatory agencies and legislatures, litigation, operating competition, market perceptions, progress with respect to potential acquisitions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the actions of rating agencies, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 