Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The Company’s operations involve various risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to pay distributions on its common stock and the market price of its common stock. These risks, among others contained in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, include: Real estate investments’ value fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may limit the Company’s revenues and available cash. The factors that affect the value of the Company’s real estate and the revenues the Company derives from its properties include, among other things: • general economic conditions; • local conditions such as oversupply or a reduction in demand in an area; • the attractiveness of the properties to tenants; • tenant defaults; • zoning or other regulatory restrictions; • competition from other available real estate; • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; and • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums and real estate taxes. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases. The Company’s financial results depend on leasing space to tenants on terms favorable to the Company. The Company’s income and funds available for distribution to its stockholders will decrease if a significant number of the Company’s tenants cannot pay their rent or the Company is unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, the Company may not be able to enforce its rights as landlord without delays and the Company may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 69.4% of the Company’s gross revenues from continuing operations came from rentals of real property. The Company may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly and, therefore, will tend to limit the Company’s ability to adjust its property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of the Company’s property portfolio could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to its stockholders. In addition, like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, the Company must comply with the safe harbor rules relating to the number of properties disposed of in a year, their tax basis and the cost of improvements made to the properties, or meet other tests which enable a REIT to avoid punitive taxation on the sale of assets. Thus, the Company’s ability at any time to sell assets may be restricted. The Company may be unable to sell properties on advantageous terms. The Company has sold to third parties a significant number of properties in recent years and, as part of its business, the Company intends to continue to sell properties to third parties. The Company’s ability to sell properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond the Company’s control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of the Company’s properties. If the Company is unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in 8 Table of Contents accordance with the Company’s business strategy, then the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. The Company has also sold to its joint ventures a significant number of properties in recent years and, as part of its business, the Company intends to continue to sell properties to its joint ventures as opportunities arise. If the Company does not have sufficient properties available that meet the investment criteria of current or future joint ventures, or if the joint ventures have reduced or do not have access to capital on favorable terms, then such sales could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, the Company’s common stock. The Company may be unable to acquire properties on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as the Company expects. The Company acquires and intends to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties. The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that the Company’s investments may not perform as expected and that the Company’s cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further, the Company faces significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded REITs and private investors. This competition increases as investments in real estate become attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, the Company may be unable to acquire additional properties as it desires or the purchase price may be elevated. In addition, the Company expects to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under its revolving line of credit (“Unsecured Line of Credit I”), proceeds from equity or debt offerings by the Company and proceeds from property sales, which may not be available and which could adversely affect the Company’s cash flow. Any of the above risks could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market value of, the Company’s common stock. The Company may be unable to complete development and re-development projects on advantageous terms. As part of its business, the Company develops new and re-develops existing properties. In addition, the Company has sold to third parties or sold to the Company’s joint ventures a significant number of development and re-development properties in recent years, and the Company intends to continue to sell such properties to third parties or to sell such properties to the Company’s joint ventures as opportunities arise. The real estate development and re-development business involves significant risks that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of the Company’s common stock, which include: • the Company may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; • the Company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; • the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts and limiting the Company’s ability to sell such properties to third parties or to sell such properties to the Company’s joint ventures. The Company may be unable to renew leases or find other lessees. The Company is subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space subject to such leases may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than expiring lease terms. If the Company were unable to promptly renew a significant 9 Table of Contents number of expiring leases or to promptly relet the space covered by such leases, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting were significantly lower than the current rates, the Company’s cash, funds from operations, and ability to make expected distributions to stockholders might be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, leases with respect to approximately 12.6 million, 12.3 million and 10.0 million square feet of GLA, representing 20%, 19% and 16% of GLA, expire in the remainder of 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The Company might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. The Company intends to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. Although the Company believes that it is organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some of which must be met on a recurring basis. These requirements are established under highly technical and complex Code provisions of which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control. The Company (through one of its subsidiary partnerships) entered into certain development agreements in 2000 through 2003, the performance of which has been completed. Under these agreements, the Company provided services to unrelated third parties and certain payments were made by the unrelated third parties for services provided by certain contractors hired by the Company. The Company believes that these payments were properly characterized by it as reimbursements for costs incurred by it on behalf of the third parties and do not constitute gross income and did not prevent the Company from satisfying the gross income requirements of the REIT provisions (the “gross income tests”). The Company has brought this matter to the attention of the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS has not challenged or expressed any interest in challenging the Company’s view on this matter. Employees of the Operating Partnership, a subsidiary partnership of the Company (the “Service Employees”), have been providing certain acquisition and disposition services since 2004 and certain leasing and property management services since 1997 to one of the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “TRS”), and have also been providing certain of these services (or similar services) to joint ventures in which First Industrial, L.P. owns a minority interest or to unrelated parties. In determining whether it satisfied the gross income tests for certain years, the Company has taken and intends to take the position that the costs of the Service Employees should be shared between First Industrial, L.P. and the TRS and that no fee income should be imputed to the Company as a result of such arrangement. However, because certain of these services (or similar services) have also been performed for the joint ventures or unrelated parties described above, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully challenge this position. First Industrial, L.P. has taken and intends to continue to take appropriate steps to address this issue going forward, but there can be no assurance that any such steps will adequately resolve this issue. If the IRS were to challenge either of the positions described in the two preceding paragraphs and were successful, the Company could be found not to have satisfied the gross income tests in one or more of its taxable years. If the Company were found not to have satisfied the gross income tests, it could be subject to a penalty tax. However, such noncompliance should not adversely affect the Company’s status as a REIT as long as such noncompliance was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect and certain other requirements were met. The Company believes that, in both situations, any such noncompliance was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and that such other requirements were met. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at corporate rates. This could result in a discontinuation or substantial reduction in dividends to stockholders and in cash to pay interest and principal on debt securities that the Company issues. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it failed to qualify as a REIT. 10 Table of Contents Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on the gain attributable to the transaction. As part of its business, the Company (through the Operating Partnership) sells properties to third parties or sells properties to the Company’s joint ventures as opportunities arise. Under the Code, a 100% penalty tax could be assessed on the gain resulting from sales of properties that are deemed to be prohibited transactions. The question of what constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transaction. The IRS could contend that certain sales of properties by the Company are prohibited transactions. While the Company’s management does not believe that the IRS would prevail in such a dispute, if the matter were successfully argued by the IRS, the 100% penalty tax could be assessed against the profits from these transactions. In addition, any income from a prohibited transaction may adversely affect the Company’s ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. The REIT distribution requirements may require the Company to turn to external financing sources. The Company could, in certain instances, have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable it to meet the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In that situation, the Company could be required to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms in order to meet those distribution requirements. In addition, because the Company must distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of the Company’s REIT taxable income each year, the Company’s ability to accumulate capital may be limited. Thus, in connection with future acquisitions, the Company may be more dependent on outside sources of financing, such as debt financing or issuances of additional capital stock, which may or may not be available on favorable terms. Additional debt financings may substantially increase the Company’s leverage and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests. Debt financing, the degree of leverage and rising interest rates could reduce the Company’s cash flow. Where possible, the Company intends to continue to use leverage to increase the rate of return on the Company’s investments and to allow the Company to make more investments than it otherwise could. The Company’s use of leverage presents an additional element of risk in the event that the cash flow from the Company’s properties is insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In addition, rising interest rates would reduce the Company’s cash flow by increasing the amount of interest due on its floating rate debt and on its fixed rate debt as it matures and is refinanced. Cross-collateralization of mortgage loans could result in foreclosure on substantially all of the Company’s properties if the Company is unable to service its indebtedness. If the Operating Partnership decides to obtain additional debt financing in the future, it may do so through mortgages on some or all of its properties. These mortgages may be issued on a recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized basis. Cross-collateralization makes all of the subject properties available to the lender in order to satisfy the Company’s debt. Holders of indebtedness that is so secured will have a claim against these properties. To the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose upon properties that are not the primary collateral for their loan, which may, in turn, result in acceleration of other indebtedness secured by properties. Foreclosure of properties would result in a loss of income and asset value to the Company, making it difficult for it to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. As of December 31, 2006, none of the Company’s current indebtedness was cross-collateralized. 11 Table of Contents The Company may have to make lump-sum payments on its existing indebtedness. The Company is required to make the following lump-sum or “balloon” payments under the terms of some of its indebtedness, including the Operating Partnership’s: • $50 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Notes due 2032 (the “2032 Notes”) • $200 million aggregate principal amount of 7.60% Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes”) • approximately $15 million aggregate principal amount of 7.15% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”) • $100 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”) • $200 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”) • $125 million aggregate principal amount of 6.42% Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) • $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due 2012 (the “2012 Notes”) • $200 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Notes due 2011 (the “2011 Exchangeable Notes”) • $200 million aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Notes due 2011 (the “2011 Notes”) • $125 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Notes due 2009 (the “2009 Notes”) • $150 million aggregate principal amount of 7.60% Notes due 2007 (the “2007 Notes”) • a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Unsecured Line of Credit I”) under which First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., through the Operating Partnership, may borrow to finance the acquisition of additional properties and for other corporate purposes, including working capital. The Unsecured Line of Credit I provides for the repayment of principal in a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity in 2008. Under the Unsecured Line of Credit I, the Operating Partnership has the right, subject to certain conditions, to increase the aggregate commitment by up to $100.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, $207.0 million was outstanding under the Unsecured Line of Credit I at a weighted average interest rate of 6.058%. The Company’s ability to make required payments of principal on outstanding indebtedness, whether at maturity or otherwise, may depend on its ability either to refinance the applicable indebtedness or to sell properties. The Company has no commitments to refinance the 2007 Notes, the 2009 Notes, the 2011 Notes, the 2011 Exchangeable Notes, the 2012 Notes, the 2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2017 Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2032 Notes or the Unsecured Line of Credit I. Some of the existing debt obligations, other than those discussed above, of the Company, through the Operating Partnership, are secured by the Company’s properties, and therefore such obligations will permit the lender to foreclose on those properties in the event of a default. There is no limitation on debt in the Company’s organizational documents. The organizational documents of the Company do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness the Company may incur. Accordingly, the Company could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and in an increased risk of default on the Company’s obligations. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s ratio of debt to its total market capitalization was 40.1%. The Company computes that percentage by calculating its total consolidated debt as a percentage of the aggregate market value of all outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, assuming the exchange of all limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership for common stock, plus the aggregate stated value of all outstanding shares of preferred stock and total consolidated debt. 12 Table of Contents Rising interest rates on the Company’s Unsecured Line of Credit could decrease the Company’s available cash. The Company’s Unsecured Line of Credit I bears interest at a floating rate. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s Unsecured Line of Credit I had an outstanding balance of $207.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 6.058%. The Company’s Unsecured Line of Credit I bears interest at the Prime Rate or at the LIBOR plus .625%. Based on an outstanding balance on the Company’s Unsecured Line of Credit I as of December 31, 2006, a 10% increase in interest rates would increase interest expense by $1.3 million on an annual basis. Increases in the interest rate payable on balances outstanding under the Unsecured Line of Credit I would decrease the Company’s cash available for distribution to stockholders. Earnings and cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the Company’s common stock. As a real estate investment trust, the market value of the Company’s common stock, in general, is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the Company’s growth potential and its current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value of the Company’s common stock is based secondarily upon the market value of the Company’s underlying real estate assets. For this reason, shares of the Company’s common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the Company’s net asset value per share. To the extent that the Company retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of the Company’s underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Further, the distribution yield on the common stock (as a percentage of the price of the common stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of the Company’s common stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of the Company’s common stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Additionally, if the market price of the Company’s common stock declines significantly, then the Company might breach certain covenants with respect to its debt obligations, which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions and the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. The Company may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities due to environmental problems. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of clean-up of certain conditions relating to the presence of hazardous or toxic materials on, in or emanating from a property, and any related damages to natural resources. Environmental laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic materials. The presence of such materials, or the failure to address those conditions properly, may adversely affect the ability to rent or sell the property or to borrow using a property as collateral. Persons who dispose of or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic materials may also be liable for the costs of clean-up of such materials, or for related natural resource damages, at or from an off-site disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by those persons. No assurance can be given that existing environmental assessments with respect to any of the Company’s properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of any of the properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to the Company or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any of the Company’s properties. The Company’s insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. The Company currently carries comprehensive insurance coverage including property, boiler & machinery, liability, fire, flood, terrorism, earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss as appropriate for the markets where each of the Company’s properties and their business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties and business activities. The Company believes its properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, 13 Table of Contents including losses from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, pollution, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed to be economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of the Company’s properties, the Company could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues from these properties, and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. The Company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with its investments in properties through joint ventures. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s six joint ventures owned approximately 26.0 million square feet of properties. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s investment in joint ventures exceeded $55 million in the aggregate, and for the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s equity in income of joint ventures exceeded $30 million. The Company’s organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that the Company may invest in joint ventures and the Company intends to continue to develop and acquire properties through joint ventures with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. Joint venture investments, in general, involve certain risks, including: • co-members or joint venturers may share certain approval rights over major decisions; • co-members or joint venturers might fail to fund their share of any required capital commitments; • co-members or joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company’s business interests or goals that would affect its ability to operate the property; • co-members or joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to the Company’s instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; • the joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a member’s or joint venturer’s interest or “buy-sell” or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • disputes between the Company and its co-members or joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the Company’s expenses and prevent its officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on the Company’s business and subject the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and • the Company may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of its co-members or joint venturers. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, its common stock. In addition, joint venture investments in real estate involve all of the risks related to the ownership, acquisition, development, sale and financing of real estate discussed in the risk factors above. To the extent the Company’s investments in joint ventures are adversely affected by such risks, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, its common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments None 14 Table of Contents 