risk factors as further described in this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements are only predictions as of the date they are made and are not guarantees of performance. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to Familymeds on the date of this Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking events discussed in this Form 10-K and other statements made from time to time by Familymeds or its representatives may not occur, and actual events and results may differ materially and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about Familymeds including without limitation those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and the risks discussed in our United States Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Except for its ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required by the federal securities laws, Familymeds is not obligated to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM PAGE PART I 5 1. Business 5 1A. Risk Factors 18 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 2. Properties 22 3. Legal Proceedings 23 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II 25 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 6. Selected Financial Data 25 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks 42 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data F-1 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43 9A. Controls and Procedures 43 9B Other Information 44 PART III 45 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 45 11. Executive Compensation 45 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 45 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 45 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45 PART IV 46 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K 46 Signatures 52 Certifications 4 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. Recent Developments - Plan of Liquidation On February 7, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the sale of a majority of our pharmacy assets (the “Asset Sale”) to Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation, and Walgreen Eastern Co., Inc., a New York corporation (collectively, “Walgreens”) and a related plan of complete liquidation and dissolution of the Company (the “Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution”) based upon a review of our past performance, projected future growth, ongoing liquidity constraints, vendor relations, industry outlook, and strategic alternatives. At a special meeting of shareholders held on March 30, 2007, our shareholders ratified the sale of a majority of our pharmacy assets and the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution. Pursuant to the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution, as approved by our shareholders, our Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders, may: · dissolve the Company; · liquidate our assets; · pay, or provide for the payment of, any remaining, legally enforceable obligations of the Company; and · distribute any remaining assets to our shareholders. Since the approval of the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution by our shareholders on March 30, 2007, we have begun implementing the plan by attempting to sell our assets and satisfy our obligations. Among other things, on April 4, 2007, we began to the process of closing the Asset Sale to Walgreens. The Asset Sale to Walgreens will be completed on a staggered basis. The closing of the sale of all of the assets to Walgreens is expected to be completed by the end the second quarter of 2007. Pursuant to our Asset Purchase Agreement with Walgreens, dated February 14, 2007, we will, subject to certain terms and conditions, sell up to 53 of our locations and related assets to Walgreens. Of the 53 locations, 33 of the clinic and Worksite locations will remain open and continue to operate in place. As consideration for this sale, Walgreens will assume only certain of our liabilities, including certain automobile and real estate leases, and will pay us approximately $43.0 million for pharmacy assets, in addition to amounts for customer accounts receivable and inventories related to those locations, subject to certain adjustments.. Up to $3.0 million of the cash proceeds will be placed in escrow for up to one year to satisfy our post-closing indemnification obligations, if any. In connection with the Asset Sale, Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC, as agent for the revolving credit lenders pursuant to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of October 12, 2005 (as amended, modified, supplemented or restated and in effect from time to time, the “Loan Agreement”) among (i) Familymeds Group, Inc. (f/k/a Drugmax, Inc.), as Lead Borrower, (ii) the other Borrowers party thereto from time to time, (iii) the Revolving Credit Lenders party thereto from time to time, (iv) and Wells Fargo, has consented to the Asset Sale and the consummation of the sale, subject to various terms and conditions. Among those conditions, we agreed that all proceeds received by us from the sale shall be paid to Wells Fargo for application to the credit facility until all amounts due under the facility are paid in full and the Loan Agreement is terminated. Each such payment of proceeds applied to the credit facility shall permanently reduce the commitments in the amount of such payment. We intend to sell our remaining assets to several other national and regional pharmacy operators. We also have begun this process. During the first quarter of 2007, we sold 10 underperforming pharmacy locations. In addition, we have a signed letter of intent to sell or assign 6-8 additional locations which we expect will also close during the second quarter of 2007. 5 Additionally, we have begun to satisfy certain of our obligations and we have begun to reduce our credit facility with Wells Fargo from the proceeds received from the Asset Sale. Once the liquidation process is completed, we estimate that the aggregate amount of cash distributions to our shareholders may be in the range of $2.35 to $2.55 per share of Familymeds common stock. However, uncertainties as to the precise net value of our assets, the ultimate amount of our liabilities, the amount of operating costs during this process and the related timing to complete such transactions make it impossible to predict with certainty the actual net cash amount that will ultimately be available for distribution to our shareholders or the timing of any such distribution. See “Risk Factors.” In connection with the Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution, once the Asset Sale is completed, we intend to file a certificate of dissolution with the State of Nevada, dissolving the Company. Pursuant to Nevada law, we will continue to exist for two years after the dissolution becomes effective or for such longer period as the Nevada courts shall direct, for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits against us and enabling us gradually to close our business, to dispose of our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our shareholders any remaining assets. See “Risk Factors.” Additionally, we intend to close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock at the close of business on the date we file the certificate of dissolution with the Nevada Secretary of State, which we refer to as the “final record date.” Thereafter, certificates representing our common stock will not be assignable or transferable on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. The proportionate interests of all of our shareholders will be fixed on the basis of their respective stock holdings at the close of business on the final record date, and, after the final record date, any distributions made by us will be made solely to the shareholders of record at the close of business on the final record date, except as may be necessary to reflect subsequent transfers recorded on our books as a result of any assignments by will, intestate succession or operation of law. See “Risk Factors.” General Description of the Business Familymeds Group, Inc. (“Familymeds,” the “Company,” or “we” and other similar pronouns) is a pharmacy and drug distribution provider formed by the merger on November 12, 2004 of DrugMax, Inc. and Familymeds Group, Inc. Familymeds Group, Inc. was formerly known as DrugMax, Inc. and on July 10, 2006, the Company amended its Articles of Incorporation to change its name from DrugMax, Inc. to Familymeds Group, Inc. As of December 30, 2006, we operated 77 Company-owned locations including 74 pharmacies, one health and beauty location, one non-pharmacy mail order center, and a drug distribution business primarily focused on the direct distribution of specialty pharmaceuticals to physicians, medical clinics and other health care providers known as Familymeds Medical Supply. The Company also franchises 7 pharmacies. During the first quarter of 2007, we have sold 10 underperforming pharmacy locations and we expect to sell 53 additional locations by the end of the second quarter of 2007 pursuant to a signed asset purchase agreement. In addition, we have a signed letter of intent to sell or assign 6-8 additional locations which we expect will also close during the second quarter of 2007. Our pharmacies are located in 13 states and operate under the Familymeds Pharmacy, Arrow Pharmacy & Nutrition Center, and Worksite Pharmacy SM brand names. As of December 30, 2006, the Company had a net shareholders’ deficit of $14.3 million and had incurred net losses of $7.2 million, $54.9 million and $39.8 million for the years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005, and January 1, 2005, respectively. We are incorporated in the state of Nevada and our corporate offices are located at 312 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT 06032, telephone (860) 676-1222. On January 17, 2007, Familymeds received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying Familymeds that NASDAQ had determined to delist Familymeds’ shares of common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market effective as of the open of business on January 18, 2007 as a result of Familymeds failure to maintain compliance with 4310(c)(2)(B) (the requirement to maintain a minimum shareholders equity, market value of listed securities, or net income from continuing operations). 6 On January 18, 2007, Familymeds’ common stock began being quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which we refer to as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” under the symbol “FMRX.OB.” The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices and volume information in over-the-counter equity securities. As a result of our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to resell your shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. General information, financial news releases and filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website at www.Familymedsgroup.com or www.sec.gov. Background and Reason for the Asset Sale During the past two years, we have taken significant steps to improve our operating results, reduce costs and improve our financial performance. These include the sale of common stock for net proceeds of $47.4 million, the redemption of all of its outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, the refinancing of the senior credit facility with a new $65.0 million facility, which allowed for additional borrowing availability, and the sale and discontinuation of a majority of our full-line wholesale drug distribution operations, which had incurred significant losses. Further, during the second quarter of 2006, we entered into a Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement and certain other agreements described below, each effective as of June 23, 2006, with Deerfield Special Situations Fund, L.P. and Deerfield Special Situations Fund International, Limited (collectively, “Deerfield”), pursuant to which Deerfield purchased two secured promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $10.0 million (one note in the principal amount of $3.3 million and the second note in the amount of $6.7 million, collectively the “Notes”) and eight warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1.65 million shares of our common stock (the “Warrants”), for an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million. The $10.0 million purchase price for the Notes and Warrants was used entirely for an early repayment, settlement and termination of approximately $23.0 million in outstanding subordinated debt and accrued unpaid interest with our former supplier AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation. Also during the third and fourth quarters of 2006, we closed or sold underperforming stores and continued to evaluate our ongoing operations to improve results. Despite these efforts, we continued to experience a reduction in gross margins due to the increased number of participants enrolled in Medicare Part D plans and the increased pressure by other third parties to reduce prescription reimbursement rates. We anticipate that this trend coupled with the announcement that reimbursement for generic prescriptions paid for by state Medicaid agencies would soon be determined as a percentage of Average Manufacturer’s Price or “AMP” will result in further decreases in gross margin. Further, the introduction of Medicare Part D in 2006 and the resulting decrease in cash paying customers has negatively impacted our cash flow. Our largest suppliers typically require payment 7 days from the date of purchase; however, payment from Medicare Part D providers and other third party payors is typically received on a 14 to 30 day basis. As more of our customers continue to enroll in managed care plans such as Medicare Part D, we will continue to experience a decline in our liquidity. These negative pressures on gross margin coupled with the increasing demand for pharmacists, rising salary requirements, increasing health care costs and professional liability insurance costs, will continue to negatively impact our ability to become profitable. 7 During the 2nd half of 2006, we implemented selling and general administrative expense reduction measures, including a workforce reduction of 33 employees at our headquarters in Farmington, Connecticut in July 2006, directed at reducing costs and improving overall liquidity. In addition, during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2006, we also contacted various banking and investment firms in an effort to improve liquidity, provide capital for growth and improve financial results either through a private investment in a public equity (“PIPE”), the refinancing of the current credit facility or through a subordinated tranche B type loan. These financing alternatives were determined to be very expensive and highly dilutive to our current shareholders. Further, the continued gross margin pressure on prescription drug sales, among other factors, has created a more urgent need for a larger scaled enterprise for our clinic and Worksite Pharmacy business model. We exhaustively sought new capital; however, such financing opportunities were highly dilutive. Familymeds strategic plan has been to seek long term sustainable profits by increasing sales through organic growth, continued focus on same store sales growth and expansion of new pharmacies in clinic and Worksite settings. However, in light of the factors noted above, the current competitive environment and our highly leveraged capital structure, the Board of Directors believed that we lacked the capital resources necessary in the long-term to compete effectively in our industry. In an effort to maximize the value of the shareholders’ investment in the Company, the Board of Directors decided to examine certain financial and strategic alternatives to the Company remaining independent. In October 2006, the Board of Directors retained JMP Securities LLC (“JMP Securities”) as its financial advisor to examine these alternatives and to contact certain potential strategic and financial partners with respect to a transaction with us. With the Board of Directors frequent consultation and guidance throughout a process extending many months, management and JMP Securities considered a number of strategic alternatives for us and our business. This included an analysis of the operating history and prospects for growth of the Company as a whole. By December 2006, we received several written indications of interest and verbal expressions of continued interest. The proposals were in the form of financing commitments, stock exchanges, and others in the form of asset purchases, including the proposal submitted by Walgreens. The Board of Directors carefully considered each of the offers in light of the current industry issues, the ongoing liquidity issues and the strategic alternatives available to the Company. The Board of Directors considered the value of each offer, the certainty of closure, the availability of financing to consummate the transaction, the currency offered and the value to shareholders. After thorough discussions and extensive debate, the Board of Directors agreed to pursue the Walgreens offer. On February 7, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the Asset Purchase Agreement and the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company. Its decision was based on a review of our past performance, projected future growth, ongoing liquidity constraints, vendor relations, industry outlook, and strategic alternatives. Overview of the Asset Sale On February 14, 2007, Familymeds Group, Inc. together with its wholly owned subsidiaries Familymeds, Inc. and Arrow Prescription Corp., entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation, Walgreen Eastern Co., Inc., a New York corporation (together with Walgreen Co., “Walgreens”), pursuant to which we will, subject to certain terms and conditions, sell up to 53 of our locations and related assets to Walgreens (the “Asset Sale”). Of the 53 locations, 33 of the clinic and Worksite locations will remain open and continue to operate in place. As consideration for this sale, Walgreens will assume only certain of our liabilities, including certain automobile and certain real estate leases, and will pay us approximately $43.0 million for pharmacy assets, in addition to amounts for customer accounts receivable and inventories related to those locations, subject to certain adjustments. 8 We intend to sell our remaining assets to several other national and regional pharmacy operators for cash and assumption of certain real estate leases, subject to closing physical inventory counts. Assets to be Sold The assets to be sold include all of Familymeds’ right, title and interest in, to and under the assets used to operate its pharmacy business (other than certain excluded assets described below), including: · prescriptions, prescription files and records, customer lists and patient profiles, including refill status reports and insurance coverages; · inventory; · personal property, including furniture, fixtures, equipment, vehicles, leasehold improvements and signage; · improvements, fixtures and other appurtenants located at any of the leased pharmacy locations, including any security deposits, rent credits and allowances paid; · rights and interests in all other Familymeds’ pharmacy assets; · permits and other similar governmental rights; · copies of all books and records; · intellectual property, including copyrights, patent rights, trademarks and trade secrets; · certain assumed contracts; · outstanding customer accounts receivable; and · real property located in Tupelo, Mississippi. The assets excluded from the Asset Sale are all cash, accounts receivable (other than with respect to customers), certain excluded contracts, employee benefit plans and programs, software and websites, corporate minute books, certain excluded inventory, and all tax refunds and credits. Additionally, if the Company fails to receive certain landlord or client consents, Walgreens may choose not to purchase the corresponding locations and the purchase price will be reduced accordingly. Liabilities to be Assumed As additional consideration for the assets to be sold, Walgreens has agreed to assume the obligations of Familymeds under certain assumed contracts, including certain automobile and certain real estate leases. However, Walgreens will not assume, nor be obligated to pay, perform or otherwise discharge any other liability or obligation of Familymeds. 9 Purchase Price Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, Walgreens has agreed to pay us an aggregate estimated purchase price of $43.0 million plus the cost of inventory and customer accounts receivable which we estimate at approximately $17.0 million, for a total estimated purchase price of approximately $60.0 million. However, if the Company fails to receive certain landlord or client consents, Walgreens may choose not to purchase the corresponding locations and the purchase price will be reduced accordingly. Indemnification The Asset Purchase Agreement provides that the parties will indemnify each other for any losses and expenses incurred by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties and covenants, subject to specified dollar and time limitations. To secure the Company’s indemnity obligations, the Asset Purchase Agreement provides that $3.0 million of the purchase price shall be placed into escrow until the earlier of one year from the closing date or the final distribution of assets to the Company’s shareholders or dissolution of Familymeds. Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution The Board of Directors approved the proposed Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company (referred to herein as the “Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution”) on February 7, 2007, and our shareholders ratified the plan on March 30, 2007. The Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution provides that upon its approval by our shareholders, the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders, may: · dissolve the Company; · liquidate our assets; · pay, or provide for the payment of, any remaining, legally enforceable obligations of the Company; and · distribute any remaining assets to our shareholders. We estimate that the aggregate amount of cash distributions to our shareholders upon the liquidation of the Company may be in the range of $2.35 to $2.55 per share of Familymeds common stock. However, uncertainties as to the precise net value of our assets, the ultimate amount of our liabilities, the amount of operating costs during this process and the related timing to complete such transactions make it impossible to predict with certainty the actual net cash amount that will ultimately be available for distribution to our shareholders or the timing of any such distribution. See “Risk Factors.” Prior Strategy Prior to the adoption of the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution, our strategy since the sale of substantially all of our full-line wholesale drug distribution business in December of 2005 has been to focus on our core business, which includes pharmacy operations, specialty sales, institutional sales, and direct distribution to physicians, medical clinics and other health care providers. Our primary strategy was to build an integrated specialty drug pharmacy platform with multiple sales channels including: clinic and apothecary pharmacies, Worksite PharmaciesSM, institutional “closed door” type pharmacies, a central fill mail order based pharmacy and a pharmaceutical distribution center focused on medical specialty sales. 10 Our strategy was to locate specialty clinic and apothecary pharmacy operations near or in medical facilities. The strategy was driven by the location concept whereby situating a clinical or specialty type pharmacy near the point of acute or chronic care provided us with a “first capture” opportunity to service patients when they visit their physicians. This enabled us to collaborate with the physician in the therapeutic regimen and provide opportunities for generic drug sales or alternative pharmaceutical therapy, which generally provide us with higher profit margins. Many of these patients or special patient groups require central fill and or mail order follow-up care that can be provided through our “closed door” pharmacy or mail order center located in Connecticut. We also supply online web based access to all or most of our services and products through our nationally known website, www.familymeds.com. We offer a comprehensive selection of branded and generic prescription and non-prescription pharmaceuticals, specialty injectables, generic biologics, compounded medicines, healthcare-related products and diagnostic products. These products are used for the treatment of acute or chronic medical conditions and may be purchased through our platforms. Also, during 2006, we had placed significant emphasis on the injectable and orally administered specialty pharmaceuticals. Pharmacy Operations As of December 30, 2006, we operated 77 Company owned locations including 74 pharmacies, one home health center, one health and beauty location and one non-pharmacy mail order center, in 13 states under the Familymeds Pharmacy, Arrow Pharmacy & Nutrition Center, and Worksite PharmacySM brand names. We had 43 pharmacies which were located at the point of care between physicians and patients, oftentimes inside medical office buildings or on a medical campus. The balance of our locations are usually nearby medical facilities though more retail accessible. The majority of our revenues from pharmacy operations come from the sale of prescription pharmaceuticals, which represented approximately 94% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. Our corporate pharmacies provide services to approximately 400,000 acute or chronically ill patients, many with complex specialty and medical product needs. We operate our pharmacies under the trade names Familymeds Pharmacy (“Familymeds”), Arrow Pharmacy and Nutrition Centers (“Arrow”) and Worksite PharmacySM. Familymeds is primarily used for pharmacies outside of New England. The Familymeds locations were primarily originated by acquiring the base pharmacy business from HMO’s, hospitals and regional independent operators. The locations are primarily clinic size with a small footprint, usually less than 1,500 sq. ft. The Arrow trade name is used in New England where most of the pharmacies were opened as a start-up or re-acquired from former Arrow franchise operators who opened these legacy pharmacy operations as start-ups. These locations are primarily apothecary size, approximately 2,000 sq. ft. and may be more visible as retail type locations, though primarily nearby hospitals or medical campus locations. Our locations in Michigan and certain locations elsewhere throughout our trading area may have a larger footprint to accommodate a comprehensive inventory of nutritional and home medical supplies. Our prior strategy also included offering our customers or patients multiple sales channels by which they can purchase our products. We offer them the opportunity to purchase a broad array of health-related products including a comprehensive selection of prescription medications, vitamins and nutritional supplements, home medical equipment, and health and beauty aids directly from our pharmacies, by mail order and via the Internet. Familymeds.com is the foundation of our Internet offering. This website is one of the few sites certified as a Verified Internet Pharmacy Provider Site (VIPPS) by the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP). The VIPPS program is a voluntary certification program designed to approve and identify online pharmacies that are appropriately licensed and prepared to practice Internet pharmacy. Familymeds.com is the non-prescription Internet commerce partner for select prescription benefit managers (PBMs) including Medco Health. 11 Worksite PharmacySM We operate Worksite Pharmacies SM (pharmacies that service a single, defined population) for large employers who are seeking to control overall employee prescription drug benefit expenditures while maintaining high employee satisfaction through improved accessibility. Our Worksite Pharmacies SM offer prescription services exclusively to the employer’s covered population. We can deliver these services at or near the employer’s work site by opening, staffing and managing a pharmacy. Our initial results have proven that this strategy reduces healthcare costs for the employer. Our research has shown that many employers, especially large Fortune 500 companies are seeking more aggressive methods to control healthcare expenditures, especially the pharmacy component of benefits. We have identified key large employers, those with over 2,000 employees in a single location, to be target opportunities for this type of employer sponsored Worksite PharmacySM. Currently, we have a Worksite Pharmacy SM in the employee center of the Mohegan Sun Casino in Connecticut and Scotts Company LLC headquarters in Marysville, Ohio. Combined, these employers have more than 14,000 employees and dependents as potential patients. On January 2, 2007, our third Worksite Pharmacy opened to provide exclusive service to Toyota team members, participating on-site suppliers and their dependants. Under the contract with Toyota, Familymeds operates a full service pharmacy at the site of Toyota's newly constructed plant in San Antonio. The plant employs approximately 2,000 Toyota personnel. Medical Supply In February 2006, we reopened and began providing distribution services from our St. Rose, Louisiana facility which had previously been closed due to Hurricane Katrina. We reconfigured and replenished the warehouse to facilitate the direct distribution of pharmaceuticals to physicians, medical clinics and other health care providers. In October 2006, the operations known as Valley Medical Supply were relocated to the Company’s corporate location in Farmington, Connecticut and it is now doing business as Familymeds Medical Supply. This move reduced operating expenses. Revenues from this operation for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 were $11.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Patient Compliance We have developed programs designed to improve patient compliance and to reduce costs. For example, we have a prescription compliance program called Reliable Refill, a discount plan called Senior Save15. Reliable Refill is a compliance program that identifies prescriptions that are due to be filled and schedules them for filling before the patient has run out of the previous prescriptions. Our Senior Save15 program, introduced prior to the Medicare Modernization Act, is our own discount program that gives senior customers access to all of our prescription and over-the-counter products at discounted prices. These and other programs are designed to improve medication therapy management among patients with chronic therapeutic needs especially the elderly population. Our data warehouse allows us to identify and target patients with special needs. Medicare Part D As of January 1, 2006, Medicare beneficiaries had the opportunity to receive subsidized prescription drug coverage through the Medicare Part D program. The new drug benefit is delivered by competing plans, and our pharmacies have contracted with each of the major providers to ensure our customers can continue purchasing their prescriptions from our pharmacies. While the new Medicare drug benefit is entirely voluntary, we believe a significant portion of the Medicare population will enjoy this new benefit. During the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, net revenues from Medicare Part D prescriptions represented 19% of total prescription sales, respectively. The gross margin from this business is less than what the traditional prescription drug plans provide and the accounts receivable days outstanding is more than what the traditional prescription drug plans. 12 Supply Chain Management Because of higher purchasing costs due to our inability to buy on a more credit worthy basis during fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we began to experience a decrease in our ability to supply products to our customers and a decline in our gross margin. McKesson Corporation and Familymeds Group, Inc. entered into a Supply Agreement effective as of December 28, 2006 and continuing for a term of 3 years. The Supply Agreement may be terminated prior to the 3 year term upon certain conditions including ninety (90) days written notice to the other party. Under the terms of the Supply Agreement, McKesson has agreed to continue as our primary supplier for prescription and non-prescription items. McKesson will continue to provide delivery to our locations up to 5 times per week and we will pay for such goods delivered 7 days from the date of invoice. Discontinued Operations During fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we operated two drug distribution facilities: Valley Drug Company and Valley Drug Company South. During the third quarter of 2005, we determined that we would sell certain assets of the drug distribution business and eliminate operations conducted out of the New Castle, Pennsylvania facility and the St. Rose, Louisiana facility related to the distribution to independent pharmacies. Accordingly, as of October 1, 2005, we considered substantially all of the wholesale distribution business as discontinued operations for financial statement presentation purposes. In December 2005, Rochester Drug Cooperative (“RDC”) acquired certain assets from our wholly-owned subsidiary, Valley Drug Company, including a customer list, furniture, fixtures and equipment located at our New Castle, Pennsylvania facility (the “RDC Sale”). In connection with the sale, RDC assumed certain property leases, customer and other miscellaneous contracts. The total purchase price for these select assets was $0.7 million, of which $0.4 million was received upon closing and $0.3 million is required to be paid if and when the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority (“PIDA”) consents to a lease assignment of the New Castle facility to RDC. We leased this premises from Becan Development LLC (“Becan”), a company owned by a current director of the Company (Jugal Taneja) and certain former directors, officers and employees of the Company. The original lease (dated December 30, 2003) (the “Original Lease”) provided for a term of 15 years, expiring December 30, 2018, and monthly lease payments of $0.017 million. When the Original Lease was executed, Becan and Valley North entered into a Consent, Subordination and Assumption Agreement (the “Guarantee”) with the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority (“PIDA”) and Regional Industrial Development Corporation of Southwest Pennsylvania (“RIDC”) dated December 30, 2003, pursuant to which, among other things, Becan and Valley Drug Company (Valley North”), jointly and severally, assumed all obligations of RIDC to make payments and discharge all obligations expenses, costs and liabilities of RIDC in connection with the PIDA note (the “PIDA Note”). The PIDA Note is also secured by the Original Lease and the property. In connection with the RDC Sale, Becan and Valley North agreed to shorten the lease to five years ending, December 2010, and to sublease the premises to RDC. It was the intent of the parties at that time to assign the lease to RDC upon the consent to such assignment by PIDA. RDC held back $0.3 million of the purchase price related to the RDC Sale pending receipt of PIDA’s consent. PIDA agreed to consent to the assignment of the lease to RDC subject to the preparation of final documents, including documents evidencing the parties agreement to shorten the maturity of the PIDA Note to five years ending December 2010; but, during October 2006, RDC notified PIDA that it was withdrawing its application to PIDA and that it was no longer willing to assume the lease. Contemporaneously with its notice to PIDA, RDC notified us that it refused to pay the $0.3 million holdback to Valley because of the delays in obtaining the PIDA consent. RDC has signed a sublease for the property and remains legally responsible for the lease payments. In October 2006, we filed a demand for arbitration claiming RDC has acted in bad faith and demanding $0.3 million. Becan and its principals, including Mr. Taneja, indemnified Valley North and us against any claims or demands PIDA may bring against Valley or us in connection with the PIDA Note and will use their best efforts to have Valley released from all obligations under the PIDA Note. 13 In connection with the sale of these assets, we transferred a portion of the New Castle, Pennsylvania pharmaceutical inventory to our retail pharmacies as well as a portion to its St. Rose, Louisiana facility for continued distribution to our retail pharmacies and for use in the Valley Medical Supply operations. In October 2006, these operations were relocated to our corporate location in Farmington, Connecticut and are now doing business under the name Familymeds Medical Supply. Net revenues related to the discontinued operations were $0.0 million and $103.6 million for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. During the third quarter 2006, we received notification of a tax assessment from a state tax authority relating to our discontinued operations. We have accrued $0.2 million of estimated income taxes relating to this matter and is reflected as a component of discontinued operations. The loss from discontinued operations was $1.3 million and $33.0 million the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. Industry Overview The pharmaceutical distribution industry faces numerous challenges and opportunities. While we expect significant growth in this segment of healthcare due to an aging population, the introduction of new pharmaceuticals, rising pharmaceutical prices, increased use of injectable drug therapies, and the expiration of patents for branded pharmaceuticals, we also face challenges due to changes in contracting practices, new Medicare and Medicaid regulations, and third party reimbursement issues. Our industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs. These changes include changes to Medicare, Medicaid or similar government health benefit programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our services. The Medicare Modernization Act, or the MMA, includes a major expansion of the Medicare prescription drug benefit under new Medicare Part D. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. The MMA changes Medicare’s payment methodology from a system based on average wholesale price, or AWP, to one based on average selling price, or ASP. As the ASP methodology of reimbursement is implemented, it may affect our current AWP based reimbursement structure with our private payors. While we cannot predict the eventual results of these law changes, the effect of the MMA has been to reduce prices and gross margins on some of the drugs that we distribute. Further, if other third-party payors revise their pricing based on new methods of calculating the AWP, or based on ASP, this could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation, by reducing the pricing and margins on certain of our products should we continue as a going concern. Credit Facility On October 12, 2005, we entered into a secured senior credit agreement with Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC (“WFRF”), which matures in October 2010. Available credit under this facility is based on eligible receivables, inventory and prescription files, as defined in the agreement. The $65.0 million of maximum availability is reduced by a $7.0 million minimum reserve. While the credit facility currently does not require compliance with financial covenants, we have the ability to reduce this minimum reserve by agreeing to implement certain financial covenants. As of December 30, 2006, $37.5 million was outstanding on the line and $0.6 million was available for additional borrowings. The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. In connection with the Asset Sale, Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC, as agent for the revolving credit lenders pursuant to the Loan and Security Agreement dated as of October 12, 2005 (as amended, modified, supplemented or restated and in effect from time to time, the “Loan Agreement”) among (i) Familymeds Group, Inc. (f/k/a Drugmax, Inc.), as Lead Borrower, (ii) the other Borrowers party thereto from time to time, (iii) the Revolving Credit Lenders party thereto from time to time, (iv) and Wells Fargo, has consented to the Asset Sale and the consummation of the sale, subject to various terms and conditions. Among those conditions, we agreed that all proceeds received by us from the sale shall be paid to Wells Fargo for application to the credit facility until all amounts due under the facility are paid in full and the Loan Agreement is terminated. Each such payment of proceeds applied to the credit facility shall permanently reduce the commitments in the amount of such payment. 14 Competition The healthcare industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Our failure to compete effectively in this segment has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our competitors are offering similar products and services. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we have. These competitive pressures have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We compete on the basis of breadth of our product lines, marketing programs, support services and pricing. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, include: · Chain drugstores including CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreen’s; · Mass marketers including Target and Wal-Mart; · Warehouse clubs including BJ’s, Costco and Sam’s Club; · Mail order prescription providers including Express Scripts and Medco; · Online drugstores including drugstore.com; · Specialty medication providers including Accredo Health and Priority Healthcare; and · Specialty pharmaceutical distributors including Florida Infusion Pharmacy, Allion Healthcare, Inc., and Bioscrip. In addition, certain of our competitors have developed or may be able to develop e-commerce operations that compete with our pharmacy and e-commerce operations, and may be able to devote substantially more resources to web site development and systems development. The online commerce market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future because barriers to entry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new web sites at relatively low cost. Government Regulations and Legal Uncertainties We are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensing and registration laws and regulations with respect to our business, including our pharmacy and franchise operations and the pharmacists we employ. Regulations in these areas often involve subjective interpretation and we do not know if our attempts to comply with these regulations will be deemed sufficient by the appropriate regulatory agencies. We believe we have satisfied our licensing and registration requirements and continue to actively monitor our compliance with these requirements. However, violations of any of these regulations could result in various penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, and seizure of our inventory or monetary fines, any of which could adversely affect our operations and damage our brand. Our industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs. These changes include changes to Medicare, Medicaid or similar government health benefit programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our services. The Medicare Modernization Act, the MMA, includes a major expansion of the Medicare prescription drug benefit under new Medicare Part D. Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. The MMA changes Medicare’s payment methodology over the next three years from a system based on average wholesale price, or AWP, to one based on average selling price, or ASP. As the ASP methodology of reimbursement is implemented, it may affect our current AWP based reimbursement structure with our private payors. 15 We also are subject to requirements under the Controlled Substances Act and Federal Drug Enforcement Agency regulations, as well as state and local laws and regulations related to our pharmacy operations such as registration, security, record keeping and reporting requirements related to the purchase, storage and dispensing of controlled substances, prescription drugs and certain over-the-counter drugs. Under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act of 1938, the distribution of adulterated or misbranded homeopathic remedies or other drugs is prohibited. Violations could result in substantial fines and other monetary penalties, seizure of the misbranded or adulterated items, and/or criminal sanctions. We also are required to comply with the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act when selling dietary supplements and vitamins. In addition, our pharmacy compounding services are subject to FDA regulation. The FDA also regulates drug advertising and promotion, including direct-to-patient advertising, done by or on behalf of manufacturers and marketers. If we expand our product and service offerings, more of our products and services will likely be subject to Food and Drug Administration regulation. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in significant penalties which may be material. We also are subject to federal statutes and state legislation that prohibit the offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any remuneration directly or indirectly in exchange for, or intended to induce, the referral of patients or the sale or purchase of services and supplies covered by certain governmental programs (Anti-Kickback Laws). We also are subject to the Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, commonly referred to as “Stark Law,” which prohibits the billing of federally-funded health care programs for certain health care services provided by entities with which the referring physician has certain financial arrangements. Violations of these laws are punishable by civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and criminal sanctions in the case of the Anti-Kickback Law. Due to the breadth and complexity of these laws, there can be no assurance that we, any of our personnel, or any of our significant customers or business partners, will not become subject to sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the sanctioning or exclusion of a manufacturer or recipient of our products or services, even for activities unrelated to us, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the Omnibus Budget and Reconciliation Act of 1990 and similar state and local laws and regulations, our pharmacists are required to offer counseling to our customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects, adverse effects or interactions and therapeutic contraindications, proper storage, prescription refill and other information deemed significant by our pharmacists. In the event that our pharmacists or our mail order and online pharmacies provide erroneous or misleading information to our customers, we may be subject to liability or negative publicity that could have an adverse impact on our business. Although we carry general, professional and product liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively “HIPAA”), require health care providers, like us, to comply with specified standards for electronic billing and other transactions and to adopt and comply with policies and procedures to protect the security and privacy of an individual’s protected health information consistent with HIPAA requirements, and prohibit the use or dissemination of an individual’s protected health information without the individual’s consent. There are significant civil monetary and criminal penalties for failure to comply. Although we do not offer franchises for sale at this time, in the case of renewing franchisees, we are subject to the disclosure requirements of the Federal Trade Commission and may be subject to pre-sale disclosure requirements and registration requirements of various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. In addition, with respect to our existing franchisees, we also may be subject to certain state laws regulating the franchisor-franchisee relationship. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial financial penalties. As of December 30, 2006, we held franchise agreements for seven stores and are not materially dependent on these agreements. 16 We also are subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions. Increases in the federal minimum wage rate, employee benefit costs or other costs associated with employees could adversely affect our results of operations. Other legislation being considered at the federal and state level could affect our business including state legislation related to the regulation of nonresident pharmacies. We believe we are currently in material compliance with the state and federal laws and regulations governing our business. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to numerous federal securities laws and regulations. These laws include the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. These laws and regulations impose significant requirements in the areas of financial reporting, accounting practices, and corporate governance among others. Recently, many states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the integrity of the supply channel. These laws and regulations may also restrict our ability to purchase drugs from alternate source supplier and are likely to increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with our drug distribution operations. The costs associated with complying with various federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual Property We hold various trademarks, trade names, service marks, patents and business licenses. These trademarks, service marks and licenses have varying statutory lives and are generally renewable indefinitely. Although we believe that our trademarks and other proprietary products do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. Employees At December 30, 2006, we employed 630 persons, which represent 471 full-time equivalents. Approximately 24% of our employees are pharmacists. Labor unions do not represent any of these employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. 17 Item IA. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before you decide to invest. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In this case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We have a history of losses. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion with an explanatory paragraph discussing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 30, 2006, we had a net stockholders’ deficit of $14.3 million, had incurred net losses of $7.2 million, $54.9 million and $39.8 million for the years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005, and January 1, 2005, respectively and in March 2007 our shareholders approved a Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of our Company. The opinion from the independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 2006 was modified with respect to the substantial doubt surrounding our ability to continue as a going concern. Claims related to the plan of liquidation could result in substantial costs and reduce our distributions to shareholders. Extraordinary corporate actions, such as our plan of liquidation, often are not entirely predictable and may lead to claims and lawsuits being filed against companies such as ours. We face the risk that claims might be brought against us by vendors, landlords, customers, employees or shareholders. Any such claim or litigation may be expensive and, even if we ultimately prevail, the process may divert management’s attention from implementing the plan of liquidation and the sale of our remaining assets. It is not possible to predict if any such claims or litigation will be filed against us or the amount attributable to such claims, if any. Any liability would reduce our cash available for distribution and the ultimate amount of our liquidating distributions to holders of our common stock. Failure to complete the Asset Sale may seriously affect our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. The Board of Directors approved the Asset Sale and the Plan of Complete Liquidation in part because we believe that our existing cash and amounts available under our senior credit facility and cash generated from operating activities may not be sufficient to meet our vendor terms and anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. If we do not complete the Asset Sale, then we will be required to raise additional financing to continue funding our operations. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have explored obtaining additional financing and there is no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the absence of such financing, we may not able to service its debts and may be required to continue to scale back or terminate operations and/or seek protection under applicable United States bankruptcy laws. 18 If our expectations regarding the conversion of our assets into cash are inaccurate, the amount we distribute to our shareholders may be reduced. The amount of cash we can distribute to shareholders depends, in part, on the amount of cash received from the liquidation of our assets. The ultimate amount that we receive is subject to uncertainties. While we have executed asset purchase agreements and letters of intent, the sales prices contemplated by those agreements and letters of intent are subject to adjustments based on various factors, including our ability to receive certain consents and to maintain current business operations. The sales prices also are conditioned on there being no material adverse effects relating to the pharmacy assets being sold. If a material adverse change should occur or we fail to satisfy a closing condition, we may not realize the estimated amounts related to the sale of our assets. Further, the letters of intent are generally non-binding and thus are still subject to change. Additionally, the ultimate cash distributed to shareholders is also subject to the following: · The sale to Walgreens and others is based in part on the value of our inventory being sold. We have estimated the inventory value. These estimates may change depending on a number of factors including: the actual inventory value or mix on the date of closing, inventory price inflation or deflation during the interim period prior to closing, potential shrinkage of product during the interim period prior to closing, ongoing purchases and sales of inventory during the interim period prior to closing, and certain contractual exclusions, among other factors. · The estimated $60.0 million purchase price for the Asset Sale is based on the assumption that we will obtain all required landlord and client consents. To the extent we cannot obtain such consents, Walgreens may choose not to purchase the corresponding locations and the purchase price will be reduced accordingly. · When estimating the amount of cash to be distributed to shareholders, we have estimated the net realizable value of our accounts receivable that we expect to receive in cash from our customers, third party payors and others. These estimates may change depending on a number of factors including: the actual claims outstanding on the date of closing, increases or decreases in drug reimbursement rates during the interim period prior to closing, uncollectible accounts greater than our estimates, and ongoing sales and cash collections during the interim period prior to closing among other factors. · We have estimated the net realizable value of the sale of our remaining assets, which include a number of assumptions and estimates including the actual sales price of the assets to be sold and liabilities to be assumed, if any. These estimated may prove to be inaccurate. · The timing of the sales of our assets could have an impact on the actual cash proceeds we receive when these assets are sold and liabilities are assumed, if any. If our expectations regarding our liquidation expenses are inaccurate, the amount we distribute to our shareholders may be reduced. The amount of cash ultimately distributed to shareholders also depends on the ultimate amount of our liabilities and the amount of operating costs during the liquidation process. We have attempted to estimate such liabilities and costs. However, those estimated may be inaccurate. Factors that could impact our estimated include the following: · If any of the estimates regarding our plan of liquidation, including our ability to settle our real estate, equipment and other leases, the recovery of our estimated asset amounts, and the settlement of our outstanding obligations during the liquidation process, are inaccurate, the amount we distribute to our shareholders may be reduced. For instance, if claims asserted against us are successful, we will have to pay these claims before making distributions to our shareholders. · We have made certain estimates regarding the cost of personnel required and other operating costs necessary to liquidate and dissolve the Company, many of which could vary significantly and are dependent on the timing of closing of the Asset Sale and the sale of our remaining assets. If the timing differs from our plans, then we may incur additional costs above our current estimates and may distribute less in cash to our shareholders. 19 · We have assumed that most of the contract rights that we are attempting to sell will be effectively transferred. If we are unable to obtain any required consents with the counterparties to those contracts, our recoveries may be materially lower. · We will remain subject to the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the “Exchange Act,” after the completion of our dissolution. Although we intend to request relief from these obligations after the closing of the Asset Sale, we may not receive this relief. If we do not receive this relief, our liquidation expenses will be higher than we expect, which will reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our common shareholders. · We are required to obtain certain third party consents and approvals as a condition to closing the Asset Sale. Currently, we do not expect that the cost of these consents and approvals will be significant. However, if our expectation is incorrect, the amount we distribute to our common shareholders may be reduced. Distributions to our common shareholders could be reduced if our expectations regarding liabilities and operating expenses are inaccurate. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as operating costs, salaries, directors’ and officers’ insurance, payroll and local taxes, insurance, payroll taxes, rent, utilities, claims processing fees, legal and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred as we seek to close the Asset Sale and wind down operations. Any unexpected claims, liabilities or expenses or claims, liabilities or expenses that exceed our estimates or if the timing of the closing is longer than planned, could reduce the amount of cash available for ultimate distribution to common shareholders. If available cash and amounts received on the sale of a majority of our assets are not adequate to provide for our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims, we may not be able to distribute any cash at all, to our common shareholders. Distributions to our common shareholders could be delayed from our planned time frames. All or a portion of the distribution could be delayed, depending on many factors, including the following: · If lease conditions change, or if we become aware of other factors that we believe could affect our ability to discharge our real property lease obligations, we may be required to withhold additional amounts from our initial distribution until we are able to resolve these obligations. · The Walgreens Asset Purchase Agreement requires that we escrow $3.0 million for a period of one year to satisfy any indemnification obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement. Further, if Walgreens makes any claims under the indemnification provisions in the Asset Purchase Agreement, we could be required to continue to withhold up to $3.0 million from our final distribution to satisfy such claim, or higher amounts if the claim is based on fraud or intentional misrepresentations. · At the time of our initial distribution to common shareholders, we will not have all of the information we need to estimate our remaining Exchange Act filing obligation expenses accurately. Although we intend to request relief from the SEC regarding these obligations, we will likely not have obtained this relief at the time of our initial distribution. 20 Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against the making of distributions to our shareholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for distribution to our common shareholders. As a result of these and other factors, we may need to hold back, for distribution at a later date, if at all, some or all of the estimated amounts that we expect to distribute to common shareholders. Our assumptions regarding the federal and state tax consequences of the transaction may be inaccurate. The proposed Asset Sale will be a taxable transaction to us for United States federal income tax purposes and we will recognize a gain if the Asset Sale is completed. We do not believe, however, that there will be material tax payable by us, other than approximately $1.1 million of federal Alternative Minimum Tax (“AMT”) as a result of limitations on the use of net operating losses under AMT rules. We believe we have sufficient usable net operating losses to offset a majority of the income or gain recognized by us for “regular” federal income tax purposes as a result of the Asset Sale (i.e., other than AMT). We expect that our aggregate gain for federal income tax purposes related to the Asset Sale will be less than $55.0 million. Therefore, we will not set aside any material amounts of cash specifically for the payment of any tax liability, other than the $1.1 million AMT payment that we will make. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service or relevant state tax authorities will ultimately assent to our tax treatment of the Asset Sale or the net operating losses. To the extent the Internal Revenue Service or any relevant state tax authorities ultimately prevail in recharacterizing the tax treatment of the Asset Sale or the net operating losses, there may be adverse tax consequences to us and our shareholders, including that we could owe income taxes on up to the entire purchase price and our common shareholders would not receive any distributions or be required to return any distributions they have received. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, our shareholders could be held liable for payment to our creditors of each such shareholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. We intend to file a certificate of dissolution with the State of Nevada, dissolving Familymeds. Pursuant to Nevada law, we will continue to exist for two years after the dissolution becomes effective or for such longer period as the Nevada courts shall direct, for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits against us and enabling us gradually to close our business, to dispose of our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our shareholders any remaining assets. Under Nevada law, in the event we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities during this two-year period, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such shareholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. However, the liability of any shareholder would be limited to the amounts previously received by such shareholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts) in the dissolution. Accordingly, in such event a shareholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such shareholder, and in such event, a shareholder could receive nothing from us under Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company. Moreover, in the event a shareholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a shareholder incurring a net tax cost if the shareholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. There can be no assurance that the contingency reserve established by us will be adequate to cover any expenses and liabilities. Our stock transfer books will close on the date we file the certificate of dissolution with the Nevada Secretary of State, after which it will not be possible for shareholders to publicly trade our stock. We intend to close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock at the close of business on the date we file the certificate of dissolution with the Nevada Secretary of State, which we refer to as the “final record date.” Thereafter, certificates representing our common stock shall not be assignable or transferable on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. The proportionate interests of all of our shareholders will be fixed on the basis of their respective stock holdings at the close of business on the final record date, and, after the final record date, any distributions made by us will be made solely to the shareholders of record at the close of business on the final record date, except as may be necessary to reflect subsequent transfers recorded on our books as a result of any assignments by will, intestate succession or operation of law. 21 We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. In order to curtail expenses, we intend to, after filing our certificate of dissolution, seek relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. We anticipate that, if such relief were granted, we would continue to file current reports on Form 8-K to disclose material events relating to our liquidation and dissolution along with any other reports that the Securities and Exchange Commission might require. However, the Securities and Exchange Commission may not grant any such relief and we will be required to continue to incur the costs associated with these reporting requirements which will reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to retain the services of certain key personnel, the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company may not succeed. The success of the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company depends in large part upon our ability to retain the services of certain of our current officers. We expect certain officers to remain as employees to assist in the liquidation after the closing at their current base salaries, without bonus. Failure to retain these personnel could harm the implementation of the Plan of Complete Liquidation and Dissolution of the Company. If we fail to retain the services of these personnel, we will need to hire others to oversee our liquidation and dissolution, which could involve additional compensation expenses, if such other personnel are available at all. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ. On January 17, 2007, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying Familymeds that NASDAQ had determined to delist our shares of common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market effective as of the open of business on January 18, 2007 as a result of our failure to maintain compliance with 4310(c)(2)(B) (the requirement to maintain a minimum shareholders equity, market value of listed securities, or net income from continuing operations). On January 18, 2007, our common stock began being quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which we refer to as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” under the symbol “FMRX.OB.” The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices and volume information in over-the-counter equity securities. As a result of our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to resell your shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 