Item 1A. Risk Factors. Changes In Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations And Financial Condition. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed-rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. At December 31, 2006, 80.8% of our loans with contractual maturities of greater than one year had fixed rates of interest, and 95.4% of our total loans had contractual maturities of five or more years. Overall, at December 31, 2006, 82.8% of our total interest-earning assets had contractual maturities of more than five years. Conversely, our interest-bearing liabilities generally have much shorter contractual maturities. A significant portion of our deposits, including the $2.10 billion in our interest-bearing transaction accounts as of December 31, 2006, have no contractual maturities and are likely to reprice quickly as short-term interest rates increase. In addition, 91.6% of our certificates of deposit will mature within one year and 45.2% of our borrowed funds may be called by the lenders within one year. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate Page 46 Table of Contents environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our earnings. The Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank’s (“FOMC”) policy of monetary tightening through seventeen consecutive Federal Funds rate increases from June 2004 through June 2006, resulted in a significant flattening of the U.S. Treasury yield curve in 2005 and a flat-to-inverted yield curve during 2006. The pause in Federal Funds rate hikes since June 2006 has reversed the trend of rising U.S. Treasury yields and resulted in a further inversion of the market yield curve as of December 31, 2006. The market interest rate scenario has had a negative impact on our results of operations and our net interest margin as the yields on our interest-earning assets have remained substantially unchanged while the costs of our interest-bearing liabilities have increased. In addition, our interest-bearing liabilities will reset to the current market interest rates faster than our interest-earning assets as our interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter periods to reset than our interest-earning assets and our originated and purchased interest-earning assets generally have commitment periods of up to 90 days. We expect the operating environment to remain very challenging as a result of the prolonged inverted market yield curve that continues to negatively impact our net interest margin and earnings and limits opportunities for profitable growth. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and we cannot predict future Federal Reserve Board actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the yield curve will not remain inverted and that our net interest margin and net interest income will not feel greater pressure in 2007. Also impacting our net interest income and net interest rate spread is the level of prepayment activity on our mortgage-related assets. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy where the mortgage loan or the underlying mortgages of the mortgage-backed security were originated, seasonal factors and demographic variables. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are the prevailing market interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. Generally, the level of prepayment activity directly affects the yield earned on those assets, as the payments received on the interest-earning assets will be reinvested at the prevailing market interest rate. In a rising interest rate environment, prepayment rates tend to decrease and, therefore, the yield earned on our existing mortgage-related assets will remain constant instead of increasing. This would adversely affect our net interest margin and, therefore, our net interest income. We monitor interest rate risk sensitivity through analysis of the change in net interest income and net portfolio value, or NPV. NPV is defined as the net present value of the expected future cash flows of an entity’s assets and liabilities. The model estimates changes in NPV and net interest income in response to a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. The OTS uses a similar model to monitor interest rate risk of all OTS-regulated institutions. The Board of Directors of Hudson City Savings has adopted an interest rate risk policy that defines the permissible range for the change in NPV under certain interest rate shock scenarios. We expect the OTS will continue to closely monitor the interest rate risk of Hudson City Savings. Our Plans To Increase The Level Of Our Adjustable-Rate Assets May Be Difficult To Implement And May Decrease Our Profitability. One component of our plans for reducing our interest rate risk is to grow our variable-rate and short-term investments at an equivalent rate as our fixed-rate investments. While we believe that in the anticipated interest rate environment there will be demand for variable-rate assets, there is no assurance that this will be the case. If we are unable to originate or purchase variable-rate assets at favorable rates, we will either not be able to execute successfully this component of our interest rate risk reduction strategy or our profitability may decrease, or both. Page 47 Table of Contents Because We Compete Primarily On The Basis Of The Interest Rates We Offer Depositors And The Terms Of Loans We Offer Borrowers, Our Margins Could Decrease If We Were Required To Increase Deposit Rates Or Lower Interest Rates On Loans In Response To Competitive Pressures. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The New Jersey and metropolitan New York market areas have a high concentration of financial institutions, many of which are branches of large money center and regional banks. National competitors have significantly greater resources than we do and may offer services that we do not provide such as trust and investment services. Customers who seek “one stop shopping” may be drawn to these institutions. We compete primarily on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the mortgage loans we originate or purchase, as well as the quality of our customer service. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage banking firms, commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of the largest mortgage originators in the country have significant operations in New Jersey. In addition, we purchase a significant volume of mortgage loans in the wholesale markets, and our competition in these markets also includes many other types of institutional investors located throughout the country. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans or earning less on our loans. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. There are large money-center and regional financial institutions operating throughout our market area, and we also face strong competition from other community-based financial institutions. As interest rates continue to rise, we would expect to face additional significant competition for deposits from short-term money market funds and other corporate and government securities funds and from brokerage firms and insurance companies, in addition to the money center and regional financial institutions. To the extent the equity markets continue to improve, we would also expect significant competition from brokerage firms and mutual funds. Price competition for deposits might result in us attracting or retaining fewer deposits or paying more on our deposits. We May Not Be Able To Successfully Implement Our Plans For Growth. Since our conversion to the mutual holding company form of organization in 1999, we have experienced rapid and significant growth. Our assets have grown from $8.52 billion at December 31, 1999 to $35.5 billion at December 31, 2006. We acquired a significant amount of capital from the second-step conversion, which we plan to use to continue implementing our growth strategy, primarily by building our core banking business through internal growth and increased de novo branching. In addition, we will consider expansion opportunities through the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions, such as the acquisition of Sound Federal in 2006. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to experience such rapid growth, or any growth, in the future. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. In addition, we may have difficulty finding suitable sites for de novo branches. Our expansion plans may result in us opening branches in geographic markets in which we have no previous experience, and, therefore, our ability to grow effectively in those markets will be dependent on our ability to identify and retain management personnel familiar with the new markets. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of branches or of other financial institutions would present many challenges associated with integrating merged institutions and expanding operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately and profitably implement our possible future growth or that we will not have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. The Geographic Concentration Of Our Loan Portfolio And Lending Activities Makes Us Vulnerable To A Downturn In The Local Economy. Originating loans secured by residential real estate is our Page 48 Table of Contents primary business. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, either nationally or in our local New Jersey and metropolitan New York market areas, including decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and state government and other significant external events. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 65.5% of our loan portfolio was secured by properties located in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. During the first half of 2006, the national and local real estate markets, although somewhat weaker than a year ago, continued to support new and existing home sales at reduced levels. There has been a slowdown in the housing market, particularly during the third and fourth quarters of 2006, both nationally and locally, as evidenced by reports of reduced levels of new and existing home sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, stagnant to declining property values and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income or an adverse impact on our loan losses. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. On October 4, 2006, the OTS and other federal bank regulatory authorities published the Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks, or the Guidance. The Guidance describes sound practices for managing risk, as well as marketing, originating and servicing nontraditional mortgage products, which include, among other things, interest only loans. The Guidance sets forth supervisory expectations with respect to loan terms and underwriting standards, portfolio and risk management practices and consumer protection. For example, the Guidance indicates that originating interest only loans with reduced documentation is considered a layering of risk and that institutions are expected to demonstrate mitigating factors to support their underwriting decision and the borrower’s repayment capacity. Specifically, the Guidance indicates that a lender may accept a borrower’s statement as to the borrower’s income without obtaining verification only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity and that, for many borrowers, institutions should be able to readily document income. Currently, we originate both interest only and limited documentation loans. We do not originate negative amortization or payment option ARM loans. Limited documentation loans include stated income, full asset loans; stated income, stated asset loans; and streamline loans. We have evaluated the Guidance and we Page 49 Table of Contents modified, as necessary, our risk management practices, underwriting guidelines or practices relating to communications with consumers. Our Stock Benefit Plans Will Increase Our Costs, Which Will Reduce Our Profitability And Stockholders’ Equity. During 2005, our employee stock ownership plan purchased approximately 15.7 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $189.3 million, adding to the previous 22.3 million shares purchased following our initial conversion in 1999. Under current accounting standards, we will record annual employee stock ownership plan expenses in an amount equal to the fair market value of shares committed to be released to employees for that year. These shares are released to participants over a forty-year period. If our common stock appreciates in value over time, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase. During 2006, we adopted a stock incentive plan pursuant to which our officers and directors were granted stock options. Under the terms of the stock incentive plan, up to 8% of the common shares outstanding could be awarded as either stock options or shares of common stock or a combination of both. For awards of common stock, as the shares are awarded and vest, we will recognize compensation cost equal to the fair market value of such shares at grant. In the event that a portion of the shares used to fund the plan are newly issued shares purchased from us, the issuance of additional shares will decrease our net income per share and stockholders’ equity per share and will dilute existing stockholders’ ownership and voting interests. For awards of stock options, as these options vest, we recognize compensation expense equal to the fair value of the options. Under the stock incentive plan, no stock awards were made in 2006. Awards of 7,960,000 options were granted. Compensation expense related to the vesting of these options amounted to $5.5 million in 2006. At December 31, 2006, unearned compensation costs related to all non-vested awards of options and restricted stock not yet recognized totaled $26.3 million. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 