RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects: We may be unable to integrate successfully our specialty pharmacy and our drug distribution operations. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The value of our company following the Merger of DrugMax and FMG and the benefits of the Merger principally depend on the successful integration of our drug distribution operation and specialty pharmacy operation and the implementation of our business plan. The Merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently and focused on different supply and distribution channels. There is little business precedent for the integration of a pharmaceutical distributor and a specialty pharmacy chain. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities, cost savings and other benefits of the transaction as a result of, among other things, vendor constraints, unanticipated costs, deterioration in the U.S. economy and other factors. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or failure to achieve our business plan could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success is dependent upon entering into and maintaining profitable contracts with third-party payors including: health insurers, managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers. Changes in reimbursement policies or efforts by payors to recoup payments already made could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from health insurers, managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers called third-party payors. Our contracts with these organizations enable us to obtain reimbursement on behalf of our customers for the prescription products that they purchase at our pharmacies. If we are unable to maintain existing contracts or obtain additional contracts, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for prescription products purchased at our retail, mail order and online pharmacies, which could decrease the demand for our services and products and impair our ability to retain and expand our customer base. Recent efforts by third-party payors to control costs have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement for our services. If these trends continue, they could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Third-party payors also have certain contractual rights permitting them to audit our records to determine if they have overpaid us. Subject to the outcome of the audit, we may be required to reimburse the third-party payor for any overpayments. If we are required to reimburse the payor, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Our specialty pharmacies are dependent upon our distribution operations for the delivery of our products offered for sale. Our failure to supply our pharmacies effectively may adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our integration plan includes the integration of our specialty pharmacy operations and drug distribution operations. As such, our products are purchased and delivered to our distribution operations, then delivered to our specialty pharmacy locations. If our drug distribution operations fail to execute our business plan, or fail to deliver products timely to our pharmacies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The healthcare industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Our failure to compete effectively in this segment may adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals. Many of our competitors are offering similar products and services. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we have. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because many of our specialty pharmacies are located at or near the point of care, our operations are dependent upon the activities of the healthcare providers in our trade area. Changes to the blend of the healthcare providers or to their prescribing practices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our strategy has been to locate our specialty pharmacies at or near the point of care. As such, we are dependent upon the healthcare providers practicing in our trade areas. We rely on the number of patient visits, the number of prescriptions written, and the types of prescriptions written by the provider. These providers may choose to relocate or close their practices, may limit their patient visits, or may prescribe a mix of products with low gross margins such as branded prescription products. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Senior Credit Facility contains certain covenants that limit the way we conduct business. We violated certain of these covenants as of January 1, 2005 and as of such date the lender could demand repayment. In December 2004, we entered into a new secured Senior Credit Facility, which provides up to $65 million of indebtedness. At January 1, 2005, we had an outstanding principal balance of $32.9 million. Our debt covenants require us to meet financial covenants, and impose other limitations that may limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes. Failure to meet our debt covenants could result in acceleration of the debt. Also because our 15 Table of Contents borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, and we are in default under our Senior Credit Facility, our secured creditor could foreclose upon all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We violated certain of these covenants as of January 1, 2005, including the EBITDA and net worth financial covenants, and other covenants, and as of such date were in default on this obligation. As of April 15, 2005, we had not yet received an amendment waiving covenant violations. We expect to receive an amendment during the second quarter of 2005. However, there is no assurance that the lender will waive the violation and the lender could demand repayment of the $32.9 million outstanding as of January 1, 2005 and could foreclose upon all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We currently do not have the ability to repay our indebtedness if the lender demands repayment, and we further cannot assure you that, if the need arises, we will be able to obtain additional financing or to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any such failure to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We require additional capital to implement our growth strategy. In order to implement our growth strategy, we will need additional capital resources and may incur, from time to time, additional indebtedness, the terms of which will depend on market and other conditions. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, we may not be able to fully pursue our growth strategy. Further, additional financing may involve the issuance of equity or debt securities that would reduce the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders. We are in default on our Senior Credit Facility and have a history of losses. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion with an explanatory paragraph discussing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for fiscal year January 1, 2005. As of January 1, 2005, we are in violation of certain covenants on our Senior Credit Facility and the lender could demand repayment. Additionally we incurred net losses of $39.8 million, $12.2 million and $10.1 million for the years ended January 1, 2005, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively. The opinion from the independent registered public accounting firm on our accompanying consolidated financial statements as of January 1, 2005 and December 27, 2003 and for each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 2005 then ended was modified with respect to the substantial doubt surrounding our ability to continue as a going concern. The implementation of our business plan is dependent upon the continued employment of our management team and attracting and retaining qualified pharmacists. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our executive management team, key employees and pharmacists. We have not experienced such difficulties in the recent past. However as is generally true in the industry, if any of our senior management or key personnel with an established reputation within the industry were to leave our employment, there can be no assurance that our customers or suppliers who have relationships with such person would not purchase products from such person’s new employer, rather than from us. Further, there is currently a national shortage of pharmacists. As a result, pharmacists’ wage requirements continue to increase, thus we may not be able to attract and retain an adequate number of pharmacists required in order to maintain our existing level of customer service. The shortage of pharmacists and the increased wage requirements of pharmacists could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if relations with our significant supplier are terminated; substantially all of our supplier agreements are terminable at will. Recently, we entered into a new primary warehouse agreement with D&K Healthcare Resources, Inc. pursuant to which we are required to purchase primarily all of our products for sale in our specialty pharmacies from D&K. (See, “Business-Recent Developments.”) Although we purchase products from many different brand name and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers and while we believe that if we were to cease to be able to purchase products directly from D&K, we could secure the same products through other sources, including other distributors; there is a risk that our costs would increase if our primary warehouse agreement is terminated. Our operations are subject to extensive regulations. Changes to these regulations or failure to comply with these regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensing and registration laws and regulations with respect to our business, including our pharmacy and franchise operations and the pharmacists we employ. Regulations in these areas often involve subjective interpretation and we do not know if our attempts to comply with these regulations will be deemed sufficient by the appropriate regulatory agencies. While we believe we have satisfied our licensing and registration requirements and continue to actively monitor our compliance with these requirements, we cannot assure you that such monitoring will be adequate to achieve full compliance. Violations of any of these regulations could result in various penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or registrations, and seizure of our inventory or monetary fines, any of which could adversely affect our operations and damage our brand. In recent years, our industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs. These changes include changes to Medicare, Medicaid or similar government health benefit programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our services. The Medicare Modernization Act, the MMA, includes a major expansion of the Medicare prescription drug benefit under new Medicare Part D. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. The MMA changes Medicare’s payment methodology over the next three years from a system based on average wholesale price, or AWP, to one based on average selling price, or ASP. As the ASP methodology of reimbursement is implemented, it may affect our current AWP based reimbursement structure with our private payors. While we cannot predict the eventual results of these law changes, the effect of the MMA has been and will be to reduce prices and gross margins on some of the drugs that we distribute. Further, if other third-party payors revise their pricing based on new methods of calculating the AWP, or based on ASP, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation, including reducing the pricing and margins on certain of our products. See “Business – Government Regulations and Legal Uncertainties.” Our disclosure controls and procedures are not adequately effective. As of January 1, 2005, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our new Chief Executive Officer and Chief 17 Table of Contents Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer determined that certain material weaknesses existed. The material weaknesses identified are as follows: • As a result of a systems conversion on December 10, 2004 and in connection with the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2005 certain internal control deficiencies related to the drug distribution operations became evident to management that, in the aggregate, represent material weaknesses. These include inadequate staffing and supervision leading to the untimely identification and resolution of certain accounting matters; failure to perform timely cutoff and reviews; inadequate preparation and insufficient review and analysis of certain financial statement account reconciliations primarily relating to trade payable balances; and absence of documented support for, and review of certain manual accounting entries and adjustments. We continue to improve and refine our internal controls and we are committed to remediating the material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting as expeditiously as possible. Lack of certain disclosure controls and procedures, may result in a misstatement of the financial statements. See, “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” Pharmaceutical manufacturers have prevented drug distributors from purchasing inventory in advance of pharmaceutical price increases. This trend could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, our suppliers offered cash discounts for prompt payments, inventory buying opportunities, rebates, negotiated deals and other promotional opportunities. A portion of our gross margin was derived from our ability to purchase inventory in advance of pharmaceutical price increases. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have begun to increase their control over the pharmaceutical supply channel by using inventory management agreements (“IMAs”). Under most IMAs, we are prevented from purchasing product in advance of pharmaceutical price increases. Additionally, the IMAs restrict our ability to purchase products from alternate sources. We believe these changes have negatively impacted our results of operations and will have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are a large number of shares that are or may soon be available for future sale under our pending registration statements; the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock. As discussed under “Business – Recent Developments,” we have registered or are required to file a registration statement to register the resale of: • all of the shares of common stock issuable in payment of, and upon the conversion of, the debenture issued to ABDC, which DrugMax currently estimates to be approximately 4.4 million shares of common stock; • up to 4,594,591 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding series A preferred stock; • 1,177,052 shares of common stock issuable in payment of dividends on our outstanding series A preferred stock; 18 Table of Contents • 1,378,374 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants issued in connection with the sale of our outstanding series A preferred stock; • 1,000,000 shares of common stock issued in connection with the private placement we completed in March, 2004; • 10,470,507 shares of common stock issued, in connection with our Merger, to the former shareholders of FMG (along with certain FMG warrant holders and note holders); • 3,500,090 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants we issued, in connection with our Merger, to the former shareholders of FMG (along with certain FMG warrant holders and note holders); • 3,366,020 shares of common stock owned by Edgardo Mercadante, Jugal Taneja, Dale Ribaudo, William LaGamba, Allison Kiene and James Beaumariage; and • 1,974,442 shares issuable upon the exercise of options owned by Edgardo Mercadante, Jugal Taneja, Dale Ribaudo, William LaGamba, Allison Kiene and James Beaumariage. Some of the foregoing registration statements have been filed and DrugMax anticipates filing the others shortly. Once filed, DrugMax will have registration statements in place covering the resale of approximately 32,000,000 shares. Generally, we are required to use our best efforts to keep the registration statements continuously effective until all the registered securities have been sold or may be sold without volume restrictions pursuant to Rule 144(k). During the effectiveness of the respective registration statements, all the shares covered thereby generally will be freely trading, subject, in the case of the shares addressed in the last four categories listed above, to certain resale volume limitations imposed by the lock up and registration rights agreement that we entered into with management and the former FMG shareholders and noteholders. We have a relatively small daily trading volume and, thus, the sale of any of the foregoing shares in the public markets may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents 