Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our operations involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, ability to pay distributions on our common stock and the market price of our common stock. These risks, among others contained in our other filings with the SEC, include: Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing and may negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The capital and credit markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many securities and the spreads on prospective debt financings to fluctuate substantially. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. A majority of our existing indebtedness was sold through capital markets transactions. We anticipate that the capital markets could be a source of refinancing of our existing indebtedness in the future, including our 4.625% Exchangeable Notes due on September 15, 2011 in the aggregate amount of $128.9 million as of December 31, 2010. This source of refinancing may not be available if capital market volatility and disruption continues, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, we could potentially lose access to our current available liquidity under our Unsecured Credit Facility if one or more participating lenders default on their commitments. While the ultimate outcome of these market conditions cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money under our Unsecured Credit Facility or to issue additional debt or equity securities to finance future acquisitions, developments and redevelopments and Joint Venture activities were to be impaired. In addition, capital and credit market price volatility could make the valuation of our properties more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our properties that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment loss in earnings. Real estate investments’ value fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may limit the Company’s revenues and available cash. The factors that affect the value of our real estate and the revenues we derive from our properties include, among other things: • general economic conditions; • local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties; • local conditions such as oversupply or a reduction in demand in an area; • the attractiveness of the properties to tenants; • tenant defaults; • zoning or other regulatory restrictions; • competition from other available real estate; • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance; and • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums and real estate taxes. These factors may be amplified in light of the disruption of the global credit markets. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the industrial sector, and the demand for industrial space in the United 10 Table of Contents States is related to the level of economic output. Accordingly, reduced economic output may lead to lower occupancy rates for our properties. In addition, if any of our tenants experiences a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition, delays lease commencement, fails to make rental payments when due, becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy, the result could be a termination of the tenant’s lease, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases. Our financial results depend on leasing space to tenants on terms favorable to us. Our income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or we are unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. The Company may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly and, therefore, will tend to limit our ability to adjust our property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our property portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to service debt and make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, like other companies qualifying as REITs under the Code, we must comply with the safe harbor rules relating to the number of properties disposed of in a year, their tax basis and the cost of improvements made to the properties, or meet other tests which enable a REIT to avoid punitive taxation on the sale of assets. Thus, our ability at any time to sell assets may be restricted. The Company may be unable to sell properties on advantageous terms. We have sold to third parties a significant number of properties in recent years and, as part of our business, we intend to continue to sell properties to third parties. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms depends on factors beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of our properties. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. The Company may be unable to complete development and re-development projects on advantageous terms. As part of our business, we develop new and re-develop existing properties when and as conditions warrant. In addition, we have sold to third parties or sold to our Joint Ventures a significant number of development and re-development properties in recent years, and we intend to continue to sell such properties to third parties or to sell or contribute such properties to our Joint Ventures as opportunities arise. The real estate development and re-development business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock, which include: • we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms and complete construction on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow; • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; 11 Table of Contents • the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts and limiting our ability to sell such properties to third parties or to sell such properties to our Joint Ventures. The Company may be unable to renew leases or find other lessees. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space subject to such leases may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than expiring lease terms. If we were unable to promptly renew a significant number of expiring leases or to promptly relet the space covered by such leases, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting were significantly lower than the current rates, our financial condition, results of operation, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, leases with respect to approximately 9.0 million, 10.4 million and 9.0 million square feet of GLA, representing 16%, 18% and 16% of GLA, expire in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The Company may be unable to acquire properties on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as the Company expects. We acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily industrial properties. The acquisition of properties entails various risks, including the risks that our investments may not perform as expected and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further, we face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded REITs and private investors. This competition increases as investments in real estate become attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and debt originations by the Company and proceeds from property sales, which may not be available and which could adversely affect our cash flow. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market value of, our common stock. The Company might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. Although we believe that we are organized and will operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some of which must be met on a recurring basis. These requirements are established under highly technical and complex Code provisions of which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at corporate rates. This could result in a discontinuation or substantial reduction in dividends to stockholders and in cash to pay interest and principal on debt securities that we issue. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on the gain attributable to the transaction. As part of our business, we sell properties to third parties as opportunities arise. Under the Code, a 100% penalty tax could be assessed on the gain resulting from sales of properties that are deemed to be prohibited transactions. The question of what constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transaction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could contend that certain sales of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we do not believe that the IRS would prevail in such a 12 Table of Contents dispute, if the matter were successfully argued by the IRS, the 100% penalty tax could be assessed against the profits from these transactions. In addition, any income from a prohibited transaction may adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. The REIT distribution requirements may limit the Company’s ability to retain capital and require the Company to turn to external financing sources. We could, in certain instances, have taxable income without sufficient cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In that situation, we could be required to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms in order to meet those distribution requirements. In addition, because we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, our ability to accumulate capital may be limited. Thus, to provide capital resources for our ongoing business, and to satisfy our debt repayment obligations and other liquidity needs, we may be more dependent on outside sources of financing, such as debt financing or issuances of additional capital stock, which may or may not be available on favorable terms. Additional debt financings may substantially increase our leverage and additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders’ interests. Debt financing, the degree of leverage and rising interest rates could reduce the Company’s cash flow. Where possible, we intend to continue to use leverage to increase the rate of return on our investments and to allow us to make more investments than we otherwise could. Our use of leverage presents an additional element of risk in the event that the cash flow from our properties is insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. In addition, rising interest rates would reduce our cash flow by increasing the amount of interest due on our floating rate debt and on our fixed rate debt as it matures and is refinanced. Failure to comply with covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our agreements governing our Unsecured Credit Facility and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number of financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. Complying with such covenants may limit our operational flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. Consistent with our prior practice, we will, in the future, continue to interpret and certify our performance under these covenants in a good faith manner that we deem reasonable and appropriate. However, these financial covenants are complex and there can be no assurance that these provisions would not be interpreted by the noteholders or lenders in a manner that could impose and cause us to incur material costs. We anticipate that we will be able to operate in compliance with our financial covenants in 2011. Our ability to meet our financial covenants may be adversely affected if economic and credit market conditions limit our ability to reduce our debt levels consistent with, or result in net operating income below, our current expectations. Under our Unsecured Credit Facility, an event of default can also occur if the lenders, in their good faith judgment, determine that a material adverse change has occurred which could prevent timely repayment or materially impair our ability to perform our obligations under the loan agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, we would be subject to higher finance costs and fees, and the lenders under our Unsecured Credit Facility will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. In addition, our outstanding senior unsecured notes as well as all outstanding borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, could be accelerated and declared to be immediately due and payable. Furthermore, our Unsecured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes contain certain cross-default provisions, which are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the Unsecured Credit Facility and the senior unsecured notes or other debt that is in default, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock. If repayment of any of our borrowings is accelerated, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness or that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to 13 Table of Contents refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Cross-collateralization of mortgage loans could result in foreclosure on substantially all of the Company’s properties if the Company is unable to service its indebtedness. We intend to obtain additional mortgage debt financing in the future, if it is available to us. These mortgages may be issued on a recourse, non-recourse or cross-collateralized basis. Cross-collateralization makes all of the subject properties available to the lender in order to satisfy our debt. Holders of indebtedness that is so secured will have a claim against these properties. To the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose upon properties that are not the primary collateral for their loan, which may, in turn, result in acceleration of other indebtedness secured by properties. Foreclosure of properties would result in a loss of income and asset value to us, making it difficult for us to meet both debt payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the REIT provisions of the Code. At December 31, 2010, 19 of our mortgage loans payable were cross-collateralized, totaling $138.4 million (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company may have to make lump-sum payments on its existing indebtedness. We are required to make the following lump-sum or “balloon” payments under the terms of some of our indebtedness, including indebtedness of the Operating Partnership: • $35.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.750% Notes due 2032 (the “2032 Notes”) • $190.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.600% Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes”) • $13.6 million aggregate principal amount of 7.150% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”) • $117.8 million aggregate principal amount of 5.950% Notes due 2017 (the “2017 II Notes”) • $87.3 million aggregate principal amount of 7.500% Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”) • $160.2 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% Notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”) • $91.9 million aggregate principal amount of 6.420% Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) • $61.8 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due 2012 (the “2012 Notes”) • $128.9 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Notes due 2011 (the “2011 Exchangeable Notes”) • $426.6 million in mortgage loans payable, in the aggregate, due between March 2011 and October 2020 on certain of our mortgage loans payable. • a $400.0 million Unsecured Credit Facility under which we may borrow to finance the acquisition of additional properties and for other corporate purposes, including working capital. The Unsecured Credit Facility provides for a $200.0 million term loan and a $200.0 million revolving line of credit. The term borrowing requires quarterly principal pay-downs of $10.0 million beginning March 30, 2012 until maturity on September 28, 2012. The revolving borrowings provide for the repayment of principal in a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity on September 28, 2012. As of December 31, 2010, $376.2 million was outstanding under the Unsecured Credit Facility at a weighted average interest rate of 3.376%. Our ability to make required payments of principal on outstanding indebtedness, whether at maturity or otherwise, may depend on our ability either to refinance the applicable indebtedness or to sell properties. We have no commitments to refinance the 2011 Exchangeable Notes, the 2012 Notes, the 2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2017 Notes, the 2017 II Notes, the 2027 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2032 Notes, the Unsecured Credit Facility or the mortgage loans (see Subsequent Events). Our existing mortgage loan obligations are secured by our properties and therefore such obligations will permit the lender to foreclose on those properties in the event of a default. 14 Table of Contents There is no limitation on debt in the Company’s organizational documents. As of December 31, 2010, our ratio of debt to our total market capitalization was 65.3%. We compute that percentage by calculating our total consolidated debt as a percentage of the aggregate market value of all outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming the exchange of all limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership for common stock, plus the aggregate stated value of all outstanding shares of preferred stock and total consolidated debt. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. Rising interest rates on the Company’s Unsecured Credit Facility could decrease the Company’s available cash. Our Unsecured Credit Facility bears interest at a floating rate. As of December 31, 2010, our Unsecured Credit Facility had an outstanding balance of $376.2 million at a weighted average interest rate of 3.376%. Our Unsecured Credit Facility presently bears interest at LIBOR plus 325 basis points or at a base rate plus 225 basis points, at our election for the $200.0 million term borrowing, and for the $200.0 million revolving borrowings, at LIBOR plus 275 basis points or at a base rate plus 175 basis points, at our election. Based on the outstanding balance on our Unsecured Credit Facility as of December 31, 2010, a 10% increase in interest rates would increase interest expense by $1.3 million on an annual basis. Increases in the interest rate payable on balances outstanding under our Unsecured Credit Facility would decrease our cash available for distribution to stockholders. The Company’s mortgages may impact the Company’s ability to sell encumbered properties on advantageous terms or at all. As part of our plan to enhance liquidity and pay down our debt, we have originated numerous mortgage financings and we are in active discussions with various lenders regarding the origination of additional mortgage financings. Certain of our mortgages contain, and it is anticipated that some future mortgages will contain, substantial prepayment premiums which we would have to pay upon the sale of a property, thereby reducing the net proceeds to us from the sale of any such property. As a result, our willingness to sell certain properties and the price at which we may desire to sell a property may be impacted by the terms of any mortgage financing encumbering a property. If we are unable to sell properties on favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property sales in accordance with our business strategy, then our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. Adverse market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges. We regularly review our real estate assets for impairment indicators, such as a decline in a property’s occupancy rate. If we determine that indicators of impairment are present, we review the properties affected by these indicators to determine whether an impairment charge is required. We use considerable judgment in making determinations about impairments, from analyzing whether there are indicators of impairment to the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the investment. Accordingly, our subjective estimates and evaluations may not be accurate, and such estimates and evaluations are subject to change or revision. Ongoing adverse market and economic conditions and market volatility will likely continue to make it difficult to value the real estate assets owned by us as well as the value of our interests in unconsolidated joint ventures. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the cash flows, discount rates and other factors related to such assets due to the adverse market and economic conditions that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment charges in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Earnings and cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the price of the Company’s common stock. As a REIT, the market value of our common stock, in general, is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. The market value of our common stock is based secondarily upon the market value of our underlying real estate assets. For this reason, shares of our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the distribution yield on the common stock (as a percentage of the price of the common stock) relative to market interest rates may also influence the price of our common stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company may incur unanticipated costs and liabilities due to environmental problems. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of clean-up of certain conditions relating to the presence of hazardous or toxic materials on, in or emanating from a property, and any related damages to natural resources. Environmental laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic materials. The presence of such materials, or the failure to address those conditions properly, may adversely affect the ability to rent or sell the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who dispose of or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic materials may also be liable for the costs of clean-up of such materials, or for related natural resource damages, at or from an off-site disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by those persons. No assurance can be given that existing environmental assessments with respect to any of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of any of the properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any of our properties. In addition, changes to existing environmental regulation to address, among other things, climate change, could increase the scope of our potential liabilities. The Company’s insurance coverage does not include all potential losses. We currently carry comprehensive insurance coverage including property, boiler & machinery, liability, fire, flood, terrorism, earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and their business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties and business activities. We believe our properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, pollution, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed to be economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues from these properties, and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. The Company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with its investments in properties through Joint Ventures. As of December 31, 2010, the 2003 Net Lease Joint Venture owned approximately 4.9 million square feet of properties. Our net investment in this Joint Venture was $2.5 million at December 31, 2010. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in Joint Ventures and 16 Table of Contents we intend to continue to develop and acquire properties through Joint Ventures with other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances. Joint venture investments, in general, involve certain risks, including: • joint venturers may share certain approval rights over major decisions; • joint venturers might fail to fund their share of any required capital commitments; • joint venturers might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; • joint venturers may have the power to act contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; • the joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a member’s or joint venturer’s interest or “buy-sell” or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • disputes between us and our joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and subject the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and • we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venturers. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock. In addition, joint venture investments in real estate involve all of the risks related to the ownership, acquisition, development, sale and financing of real estate discussed in the risk factors above. To the extent our investments in Joint Ventures are adversely affected by such risks our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our common stock could be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. As of December 31, 2010, we owned three industrial properties and several land parcels located in Canada. Our international operations will be subject to risks inherent in doing business abroad, including: • exposure to the economic fluctuations in the locations in which we invest; • difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; • revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international revenues; • obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and funds; • currency exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and foreign currencies; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • national, regional and local political uncertainty. When we acquire properties located outside of the United States, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated. 17 Table of Contents Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity and business operations. The credit ratings of the Operating Partnership’s senior unsecured notes and the Company’s preferred stock are based on the Company’s operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses. Our credit ratings can affect the availability, terms and pricing of any indebtedness that we may incur going forward. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any credit rating, and in the event any credit rating is downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs or be unable to access certain capital markets at all. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments None. 