Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to originate mortgage loans for portfolio has been adversely affected by the increased competition resulting from the unprecedented involvement of the U.S. government and GSEs in the residential mortgage market. Over the past few years, we have faced increased competition for mortgage loans due to the unprecedented involvement of the GSEs in the mortgage market. This involvement is a result of the recent economic crisis and has caused the interest rate for thirty year fixed rate mortgage loans that conform to the GSEs’ loan purchase guidelines to remain exceptionally low. We originate and purchase such conforming loans and retain them for portfolio. In addition, the U.S. Congress recently extended through September 2011 the expanded GSE conforming loan limits in many of our operating markets, allowing larger balance loans to be acquired by the GSEs, and more loans in our portfolio qualified under the expanding conforming loan limits and were refinanced into fixed rate mortgages. As a result of these factors, we expect that our one-to four-family loan repayments will remain at elevated levels, making it difficult for us to grow our mortgage loan portfolio. Accordingly, we are likely to experience a decrease in the size of our balance sheet while current economic conditions prevail. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are under conservatorship with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, an agency of the U.S. government. On February 11, 2011, the Obama administration presented the U.S. Congress with a report of its proposals for reforming America’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the U.S. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. The report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (i) a system with U.S. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of lower- and moderate-income borrowers; (ii) a system similar to (i) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (iii) a system where the U.S. government offers reinsurance for the securities of a broad range of mortgages behind significant private capital. We cannot be certain if or when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the U.S. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted. Our concentration in structured borrowings, particularly borrowings putable at the option of the lender, could adversely affect our cost of funds and net interest margin if interest rates were to increase significantly. In the past we funded a substantial portion of our asset growth using putable borrowings. The borrowings have been generally long-term to maturity, in an effort to offset our short-term deposit liabilities and assist in managing our interest rate risk. These long-term borrowings have put options that could shorten their maturities in a changing interest rate environment. If we experience a significant rising interest rate environment where interest rates increase above the interest rate for the borrowings, these borrowings will likely be put at their next put date and our cost to replace these borrowings would likely increase. Of our borrowings outstanding at 53 Table of Contents December 31, 2010, $29.08 billion were structured putable borrowings. Of these, $24.13 billion had quarterly put options and $4.95 billion had one-time put options. We currently have $23.28 billion of borrowings that have the potential to be put back to us or will mature within the next 12 months. Of the $23.28 billion of borrowings, $22.83 billion, with a weighted-average rate of 3.90%, are putable borrowings and $19.03 billion of these could be put back to the Bank within 3 months. Given the current market rate environment, we believe none of these borrowings will be put during the next twelve months. If interest rates were to increase 200 and 300 basis points, and no other factors affecting the put determination changed, the Bank would expect approximately $450.0 million and $7.75 billion, respectively, to be put back to us within the next 12 months. Therefore, in a significantly increasing rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our earnings. We experienced a contraction in our net interest margin during 2010 and, if current market conditions continue, expect further contractions in our net interest margin while changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our net interest margin for 2010 was 2.01% compared to 2.22% for 2009. The decline in our net interest margin was due to the declines in the average yields on our interest earning assets outpacing the declines in our average cost of funds over similar time frames. The decline in our average yields reflects the combination of the overall low interest rate environment, the GSEs efforts to keep mortgage rates low to support the housing market and the continuation of the trend of homeowners to refinance their mortgage loans in the low rate environment. The efforts by the GSEs has also had the effect of reducing our sources for purchasing loans in the secondary market as the sellers from whom we have historically purchased loans are originating loans at lower rates that we would accept, selling to the GSEs or keeping the loans in their portfolio. The United States Congress recently extended to September 2011 the time period within which the GSE’s may purchase loans under an expanded limit on principal balances that qualify as conforming loans. Further, on November 3, 2010, the FOMC announced that the FRB will purchase approximately $600 billion of longer-term U.S. government securities, which is likely to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates, including interest rates on mortgage-related assets. As a result, we expect this adverse environment for portfolio lending to continue, with the likely result that we will continue to experience compression of our net interest margin, and, in combination with the likelihood of a decrease in the size of our balance sheet, a reduction of net interest income. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because 44.9% of our mortgage-related assets are fixed-rate and will not reprice as interest rates increase. In addition, included in our variable-rate mortgage-related assets are assets whose contractual next rate change date is over five years. If these instruments were classified as fixed-rate, the percentage of fixed-rate mortgage-related assets to total mortgage-related assets would be 65.9% as of December 31, 2010. In contrast, a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase since they generally have much shorter contractual maturities. A portion of our deposits as of December 31, 2010, including $8.46 billion in interest-bearing demand accounts and money market accounts, have no contractual maturities and are likely to reprice quickly as short-term interest rates increase. As of December 31, 2010, 69.4% of our time deposits will mature within one year. At December 31, 2010, we had $24.13 billion of borrowings that had quarterly put options and $4.95 billion that had one-time put options. We currently have $23.28 billion of borrowings that have the potential to be put back to us or will mature within the next 12 months, including $19.03 billion that could be put back to the Bank within 3 months. Given the current market rate environment, we believe none of these borrowings will be put during the next twelve months. However, if interest rates were to increase 200 and 300 basis points, and no other factors affecting the put determination changed, the Bank would expect approximately $450.0 million and $7.75 billion, respectively, to be put back to us within the next 12 months. The FOMC noted that economic activity has continued to improve, but the national unemployment rate has remained elevated. Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains constrained by high 54 Table of Contents unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. The national unemployment rate was 9.4% in December 2010 as compared to 9.6% in September 2010 and 9.9% in December 2009. The FOMC decided to maintain the overnight lending rate at zero to 0.25% during 2010. We expect the operating environment to remain very challenging as the Federal Reserve Board continues to focus their efforts on the economy. Interest rates will continue to fluctuate, and we cannot predict future Federal Reserve Board actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. If the yield curve were to flatten, the spread between our cost of funds and the interest received on our loan and securities portfolios would shrink. The yield curve would begin to flatten in the event that long term interest rates declined or if short term market interest rates were to begin to increase through the actions of the FOMC without a corresponding increase in long term rates. In the case of an inverted yield curve, the cost of funds would be higher than the earnings generated from these portfolios. As a result of the decreased spread from a flat or inverted yield curve, our net interest income would decrease. We monitor interest rate risk sensitivity through analysis of the change in net interest income and net portfolio value, or NPV. NPV is defined as the net present value of the expected future cash flows of an entity’s assets and liabilities. NPV is analyzed using a model that estimates changes in NPV and net interest income in response to a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. The OTS uses a similar model to monitor interest rate risk of all OTS-regulated institutions. The Bank is currently out of compliance with certain Board established limits regarding its NPV calculations. In addition, we believe our interest rate risk position would be considered significant based on the OTS’ written guidelines regarding NPV analysis. We are a residential portfolio mortgage lender and therefore have not sold loans in the secondary market. As a result, we have a higher level of interest rate risk relative to many of our peer institutions. Based on our level of interest rate risk, as well as the enhanced regulatory scrutiny of larger financial institutions, we have concluded that we will need to maintain a capital cushion above the applicable regulatory requirements to be considered “well capitalized.” Future balance sheet restructuring may adversely affect our net income. In recognition of our current interest rate risk position, we are examining various strategies to position our balance sheet for the future as market conditions change and allow for more profitable growth. As a result, we expect to further restructure a portion of our funding mix. The restructuring may include the continued modification of putable borrowings to extend or eliminate the put dates, the extinguishment of certain borrowings, the refinancing of certain borrowings or a combination of these actions. The fair value of our borrowings, which is generally the value at which borrowings are extinguished, was approximately 111% of carrying value at December 31, 2010. Any restructuring could result in a decrease in the size of the balance sheet and a material charge to earnings. We are subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in light of the recent financial crisis and the Reform Act, our interest rate risk position and significant growth since our stock offering in 2005. The recent economic recession and financial crisis, which has been marked by hundreds of bank failures, has resulted in significant government reaction both in terms of legislative actions and enhanced regulatory scrutiny. Legislative action has included adoption and implementation of the Troubled Asset Relief Program resulting in the significant investment of public monies in financial institutions, and the enactment of the Reform Act which will impose significant new regulatory burdens on us. We believe the regulatory response to the financial crisis, the legislative directives to the banking regulators and related public reaction has resulted in significantly greater regulatory supervision of financial institutions, particularly larger institutions such as Hudson City. Our growth since our initial public offering in 1999, and particularly since our second step conversion in 2005, has resulted in our becoming one of the 40 largest domestic insured depository institutions by asset size. We have enhanced systems and added to staff to keep up with the ordinary operational and regulatory burden normally associated with an institution of our size. These efforts will be further enhanced, as we are faced with a greater regulatory burden under the Reform Act and the enhanced regulatory scrutiny based on our size in the current environment. As a result, we will enhance our operational and compliance functions in a number of areas in order to meet the expected regulatory scrutiny. This will result in additional investment in both technology and staffing that is likely to increase our non-interest expense. As a result of the enhanced regulatory scrutiny, our interest rate risk position, our funding concentration in structured borrowings, our significant growth since 2005 and certain regulatory compliance matters, we expect to become subject to an informal regulatory enforcement action in the form of a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) with the OTS. Under an MOU, the Bank may be required to reduce its level of interest rate risk and funding concentration, adopt certain policies and procedures to achieve such reductions and address certain compliance matters. In addition, the OTS has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual institutions, impose restrictions on distributions from the Bank to the Company and restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends to its shareholders, to repurchase stock and to incur debt. We have the intention and ability to comply with an MOU. The terms of any MOU to which we may become subject, as well as any failure to comply with such MOU, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on the value of our common stock. The recent adoption of regulatory reform legislation has created uncertainty and may have a material effect on our operations and capital requirements. There are many provisions of the Reform Act which are to be implemented through regulations to be adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies within specified time frames following the effective date of the Reform Act, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the effect that such provisions will ultimately have. Although it is not possible for us to determine at this time whether the Reform Act will have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we believe the following provisions of the Reform Act will have an impact on us: • The elimination of our primary federal regulator, the OTS, and the assumption by the OCC of regulatory authority over all federal savings associations, such as Hudson City Savings, and the acquisition by the FRB of regulatory authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such as Hudson City Bancorp, as well as all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. Although the laws and regulations currently applicable to us generally will not change by virtue of the elimination of the OTS (except to the extent such laws have been modified by 55 Table of Contents the Reform Act), the application of these laws and regulations may vary as administered by the OCC and the FRB. • The creation of the Bureau, which will have the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations and, with respect to institutions of our size, will have exclusive examination and enforcement authority with respect to such laws and regulations. As a new independent bureau within the FRB, it is possible that the Bureau will focus more attention on consumers and may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies, which at a minimum, could increase our operating and compliance costs. • The significant roll back of the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that is currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks. As a result, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. • The establishment of consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies, as discussed below. • The increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by September 30, 2020, and the requirement that deposit insurance assessments be based on average consolidated total assets minus our average tangible equity, rather than on our deposit bases. As a result of these provisions, our deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase, and the increase may be substantial, as discussed below. The Reform Act imposes further restrictions on transactions with affiliates and extensions of credit to executive officers, director and principal shareholders, by, among other things, expanding covered transactions to include securities lending, repurchase agreement and derivatives activities with affiliates. These changes are effective one year after the Designated Transfer Date. The Reform Act also includes provisions, subject to further rulemaking by the federal bank regulatory agencies, that may affect our future operations, including provisions that create minimum standards for the origination of mortgages, restrict proprietary trading by banking entities, restrict the sponsorship of and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities and that remove certain obstacles to the conversion of savings associations to national banks. We will not be able to determine the impact of these provisions until final rules are promulgated to implement these provisions and other regulatory guidance is provided interpreting these provisions. As a result of the Reform Act and other proposed changes, we may become subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Reform Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies. These requirements must be no less than those to which insured depository institutions are currently subject. As a result, in July 2015, we will become subject to consolidated capital requirements which we have not been subject to previously. In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision recently announced the new “Basel III” capital rules, which set new standards for common equity, Tier 1 and total capital, determined on a risk-weighted basis. It is not yet known how these standards, which will be phased in over a period of years, will be implemented by U.S. regulators generally or how they will be applied to financial institutions of our size. 56 Table of Contents The FDIC restoration plan and related rulemaking may have a negative impact on our results operations. In light of the failures of a significant number of banks and thrifts over the past several years, which has resulted in substantial losses to the DIF, in July 2010, the Reform Act increased the minimum designated reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, which must be reached by September 30, 2020, and provides that in setting the assessments necessary to meet the new requirement, the FDIC shall offset the effect of this provision on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion, so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio will be borne by the institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Hudson City Savings. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new restoration plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Reform Act. The FDIC intends to pursue further rulemaking in 2011 regarding the method that will be used to reach the reserve ratio of 1.35% so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% will be borne by institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. In addition, on February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule that redefines the assessment base for deposit insurance assessments as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than on deposit bases, as required by the Reform Act, and revises the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions as described in greater detail under “Regulation of Hudson City Savings Bank and Hudson City Bancorp — Deposit Insurance.” The adoption of this final rule could result in even higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments effective April 1, 2011, which could further increase non-interest expense and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Hudson City Savings Bank’s ability to pay dividends or lend funds to Hudson City Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we need but are not able to access such funds, may prevent us from making future dividend payments. We are a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the OTS and almost all of our operating assets are owned by Hudson City Savings Bank. We rely primarily on dividends from the Bank to pay cash dividends to our shareholders and to engage in share repurchase programs. The OTS regulates all capital distributions by the Bank directly or indirectly to us, including dividend payments. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, the Bank must file a notice or seek affirmative approval from 57 Table of Contents the OTS at least 30 days prior to each proposed capital distribution. Whether an application is required is based on a number of factors including whether the institution qualifies for expedited treatment under the OTS rules and regulations or if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years. Currently, Hudson City Savings must seek approval from the OTS for future capital distributions. In addition, the Bank may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or the OTS has notified the Bank that it is in need of more than normal supervision. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA, an insured depository institution such as the Bank is prohibited from making a capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the FDIA). Payment of dividends by the Bank also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Bank will be able to pay dividends at past levels, or at all, in the future. In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, the Bank is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit it makes to its affiliates and on investments in stock or other securities of its affiliates. We are considered an affiliate of the Bank. These restrictions prevent affiliates of the Bank, including us, from borrowing from the Bank, unless various types of collateral secure the loans. Federal law limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in any single affiliate to 10% of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus and also limits the aggregate amount of loans to and investments in all affiliates to 20% of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus. If we do not receive sufficient cash dividends or are unable to borrow from the Bank, then we may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the economy. Originating loans secured by residential real estate is our primary business. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, either nationally or in our local New Jersey and metropolitan New York market areas, including decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and state government and other significant external events. As a result of our lending practices, we have a concentration of loans secured by real property located primarily in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. At December 31, 2010, approximately 78.4% of our total loans are in the New York metropolitan area. Financial institutions continue to be affected by the sharp declines in the real estate market that occurred over the last three years as well as the effects of the recent recessionary economy. Declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our loans and result in higher loss experience on our non-performing loans. Adverse changes in the economy, particularly in employment conditions, may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our investment alternatives may earn less income for us than real estate loans. 58 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of our business activities. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and our depositors, and not to benefit our shareholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. As a result of the financial crisis which occurred in the banking and financial markets commencing in the second half of 2007, the overall bank regulatory climate is now marked by caution, conservatism and a renewed focus on compliance and risk management. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The banking industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for loans, deposits and other financial services in its markets and surrounding areas. In addition to local, regional, and national banking competition in the markets it serves, the Company competes with other financial institutions, money market and other mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage companies and other non-depository financial service companies, including certain governmental organizations which may offer subsidized financing at lower rates than those offered by the Bank. Beginning in 2007, general economic conditions were impacted by credit and capital market turmoil followed by significant deterioration in the banking industry and a general downturn in the economy. The continuing weakened performance of the banking industry has provided particular competitive pressure. A combination of a difficult lending environment with historically high cost of certificates of deposit and other consumer pricing compared to other borrowing alternatives and asset yields has increased the pressure on net interest margin at the Bank, as well as at most other community banking organizations in their markets. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Non-performing assets adversely affect the Company’s net earnings in various ways. The Company expects to continue to have a provision for loan losses relating to non-performing loans that is higher than its historical experience. The Company generally does not record interest income on non-performing loans or other real estate owned, thereby reducing its earnings, while its loan administration costs are higher for non-performing loans. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, the Company is required to mark the related asset to the then-fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets increases the Company’s risk profile and may affect the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate. At December 31, 2010 our non-performing loans amounted to $871.3 million or 2.82% of total loans as compared to $627.7 million or 1.98% of total loans at December 31, 2009 and our charge-offs amounted to $98.5 million for 2010 as compared to $47.2 million in 2009. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience future increases in non-performing assets. 59 Table of Contents The recently publicized foreclosure issues affecting the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers could impact our foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures. Several of the nation’s largest mortgage loan servicers have experienced highly publicized compliance issues with respect to their foreclosure processes. This has resulted in greater bank regulatory, court and state attorney general scrutiny and consumer lawsuits. These difficulties and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders generally, including the Company. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased in general due to, among other reasons, processing delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of the economic crisis and voluntary (and in some cases mandatory) programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. In addition, the Superior Court of New Jersey has served an order on the largest mortgage loan servicers in the country inquiring as to the servicers’ foreclosure practices and requiring each to produce evidence of compliance with New Jersey state law. The Superior Court has asked an additional group of mortgage servicers in New Jersey, including the Company, to produce documentation demonstrating that there are no irregularities in the handling of foreclosure proceedings. It is expected that this process will further delay the foreclosure process in the State of New Jersey. The Company is expected to timely file the requested documents. The Company is not a defendant in a lawsuit nor is it a target of any particular investigation. Further increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and our ability to maximize our recoveries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 