Item 1A. Risk Factors. Changes In Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations And Financial Condition. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. At December 31, 2005, 82.8% of our loans with contractual maturities of greater than one year had fixed rates of interest, and 99.5% of our total loans had contractual maturities of five or more years. Overall, at December 31, 2005, 85.5% of our total interest-earning assets had contractual maturities of more than five years. Conversely, our interest-bearing liabilities generally have much shorter contractual maturities. A significant portion of our deposits, including the $3.62 billion in our interest-bearing transaction accounts as of December 31, 2005, have no contractual maturities and are likely to reprice quickly as short-term interest rates increase. In addition, 80.7% of our certificates of deposit will mature within one year and 36.8% of our borrowed funds may be called by the lenders within one year. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our earnings. We anticipate that short-term interest rates will continue to increase in 2006, as it is anticipated the Federal Open Market Committee will continue to increase the Fed funds rate at its current measured pace in the near term. We also anticipate long-term interest rates will increase at a similar rate, thus maintaining the flat market yield curve. The result of this potential market interest rate scenario, where the market yield curve remains flat, would have a negative impact on our results of operations and our net interest margin as the yields on our interest-earning assets and the costs of our interest-bearing liabilities will increase at a similar rate, thus maintaining the current narrow spread. In addition, our interest-bearing liabilities will reset to the current market interest rates faster than our interest-earning assets as our interest-bearing liabilities generally have shorter periods to reset than our interest-earning assets and our originated and purchased interest-earning assets generally have commitment periods of up to 90 days. The impact of changes in interest rates on our interest income is generally felt in later periods than the impact on our interest expense due to the timing of the recording on the balance sheet of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The recording of interest-earning assets on the balance sheet generally lags the current market due to normal delays of up to three months between the time we commit to originate or purchase a mortgage loan and the time we fund the loan, while the recording of interest-bearing liabilities on the balance sheet generally reflects the current market rates. This timing difference is expected to have an adverse impact on our net interest income in a rising interest rate environment. Additionally, if both short- and long-term interest rates increase by the same amount, the resulting environment is also likely to have a negative impact on our results of operations, as our interest-bearing liabilities will reset to the current market interest rate faster than our interest-earning assets. Also impacting our net interest income and net interest rate spread is the level of prepayment activity on our mortgage-related assets. Mortgage prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy where the mortgage loan or the underlying mortgages of the mortgage-backed security were originated, seasonal factors and demographic variables. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are the prevailing market interest rates, related mortgage refinancing opportunities and competition. Generally, the level of prepayment activity directly affects the yield earned on those assets, as the payments received on the interest-earning assets will be reinvested at the prevailing market interest rate. In a rising interest rate environment, prepayment rates tend to decrease and, Page 49 Table of Contents therefore, the yield earned on our existing mortgage-related assets will remain constant instead of increasing. This would adversely affect our net interest margin and, therefore, our net interest income. Office of Thrift Supervision Thrift Bulletin 13a provides guidance on the management of interest rate risk and the responsibility of boards of directors in that area. Under Thrift Bulletin 13a, the Office of Thrift Supervision monitors the interest rate risk of institutions through analysis of the change in net portfolio value, or NPV. NPV is defined as the net present value of the expected future cash flows of an entity’s assets and liabilities and, therefore, hypothetically represents the value of an institution’s net worth. The Office of Thrift Supervision, through its general oversight of the safety and soundness of savings associations, retains the right to impose minimum capital requirements on individual institutions to the extent the institution is not in compliance with certain written guidelines established by the Office of Thrift Supervision regarding NPV analysis. In March 2005, the Board of Directors of Hudson City Savings revised its internal interest rate risk policy to narrow the permissible range for the change in NPV under certain interest rate shock scenarios. Although $3.00 billion of the proceeds from the second-step conversion were contributed to Hudson City Savings, improving its interest rate risk position as measured by Thrift Bulletin 13a, we expect the Office of Thrift Supervision will continue to closely monitor the interest rate risk of Hudson City Savings. Our Plans To Increase The Level Of Our Adjustable-Rate Assets May Be Difficult To Implement And May Decrease Our Profitability. One component of our plans for reducing our interest rate risk is to grow our variable-rate and short-term investments at an equivalent rate as our fixed-rate investments. While we believe that in the anticipated rising interest rate environment market demand for variable-rate assets will increase and pricing terms will therefore become more favorable to us, there is no assurance that this will be the case. If we are unable to originate or purchase variable-rate assets at favorable rates, we will either not be able to execute successfully this component of our interest rate risk reduction strategy or our profitability may decrease, or both. Because We Compete Primarily On The Basis Of The Interest Rates We Offer Depositors And The Terms Of Loans We Offer Borrowers, Our Margins Could Decrease If We Were Required To Increase Deposit Rates Or Lower Interest Rates On Loans In Response To Competitive Pressures. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The New Jersey and metropolitan New York market areas have a high concentration of financial institutions, many of which are branches of large money center and regional banks. Some of these competitors have significantly greater resources than we do and may offer services that we do not provide such as trust and investment services. Customers who seek “one stop shopping” may be drawn to these institutions. We compete primarily on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the mortgage loans we originate or purchase, as well as the quality of our customer service. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage banking firms, commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of the largest mortgage originators in the country have significant operations in New Jersey. In addition, we purchase a significant volume of mortgage loans in the wholesale markets, and our competition in these markets also includes many other types of institutional investors located throughout the country. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans or earning less on our loans. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. There are large money-center and regional financial institutions operating throughout our market area, and we also face strong competition from other community-based financial institutions. As interest rates continue to rise, we would expect to face additional significant competition Page 50 Table of Contents for deposits from short-term money market funds and other corporate and government securities funds and from brokerage firms and insurance companies, in addition to the money center and regional financial institutions. To the extent the equity markets continue to improve, we would also expect significant competition from brokerage firms and mutual funds. Price competition for deposits might result in us attracting or retaining fewer deposits or paying more on our deposits. We May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Merger with Sound Federal and May Not Receive Required Regulatory Approvals or Such Approvals, if Received, May Be Subject to Adverse Regulatory Conditions. The success of the merger with Sound Federal will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine our business and Sound Federal’s business in a manner that does not materially disrupt our existing customer relationships or those of Sound Federal or result in decreased revenues from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Hudson City and Sound Federal have operated and, until completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our or Sound Federal’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Before the merger may be completed, the approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision must be obtained. We cannot guarantee that we will receive the approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes in the terms of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying the merger or imposing additional costs or limiting the possible revenues of the combined company. We May Not Be Able To Successfully Implement Our Plans For Growth. Since our conversion to the mutual holding company form of organization in 1999, we have experienced rapid and significant growth. Our assets have grown from $8.52 billion at December 31, 1999 to $28.08 billion at December 31, 2005. We acquired a significant amount of capital from the second-step conversion, which we plan to use to continue implementing our growth strategy, primarily by building our core banking business through internal growth and increased de novo branching. In addition, we will consider expansion opportunities through the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to experience such rapid growth, or any growth, in the future. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. In addition, we may have difficulty finding suitable sites for de novo branches. Our expansion plans may result in us opening branches in geographic markets in which we have no previous experience, and, therefore, our ability to grow effectively in those markets will be dependent on our ability to identify and retain management personnel familiar with the new markets. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of branches or of other financial institutions would present many challenges associated with integrating merged institutions and expanding operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably implement our possible future growth or that we will not have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. The Geographic Concentration Of Our Loan Portfolio And Lending Activities Makes Us Vulnerable To A Downturn In The Local Economy. Originating loans secured by residential real estate is our primary business. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, either nationally or in our local New Jersey and metropolitan New York market areas, Page 51 Table of Contents including decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and state government and other significant external events. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 63% of our loan portfolio was secured by properties located in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than real estate loans. Changes In The Regulation Of Financial Services Companies Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in Congress and various state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. Our Stock Benefit Plans Will Increase Our Costs, Which Will Reduce Our Profitability And Stockholders’ Equity. During the third quarter of 2005, our employee stock ownership plan purchased approximately 15.7 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $189.3 million, adding to the previous 22.3 million shares purchased following our initial conversion in 1999. Under current accounting standards, we will record annual employee stock ownership plan expenses in an amount equal to the fair market value of shares committed to be released to employees for that year. These shares will be released to participants over a forty-year period. If our common stock appreciates in value over time, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase. In the second quarter of 2006, we plan to implement a stock incentive plan pursuant to which our officers and directors, at no cost to them, could be awarded shares of common stock in an aggregate amount up to 8% of the shares of common stock outstanding. Under current accounting standards, as the shares are awarded and vest, we will recognize compensation expense equal to the fair market value of such shares at grant. In the event that a portion of the shares used to fund the plan are newly issued shares purchased from us, the issuance of additional shares will decrease our net income per share and stockholders’ equity per share and will dilute existing stockholders’ ownership and voting interests. Our Return On Average Equity Is Low Compared To Other Companies. This Could Negatively Impact The Price Of Our Common Stock. The net proceeds from the second-step conversion, completed in June 2005, substantially increased our equity capital. It will take a significant period of time to prudently invest this capital. Our ability to leverage our new capital and grow our balance sheet profitably will be significantly affected by industry competition for loans and deposits, as well as our need to manage interest rate risk. As a result, our return on equity, which is the ratio of our earnings divided by our average stockholders’ equity, will be lower than that of our peer group. To the extent that the stock market values a company based in part on its return on equity, our low return on equity relative to our peer group could negatively affect the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 52 Table of Contents 