ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered in evaluating RFM and its business. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results and cause the value of our securities to decline. The risks below are not the only ones facing RFM. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be less material also may impair our business. Sales Risks The current worldwide general economic downturn could significantly impact demand for our products. The current global economic downturn and financial credit crisis continues to adversely effect business conditions, although some recovery has occurred. The recession in the U.S. and key foreign markets has substantially affected our sales, profitability and financial condition. The downturn has reduced economic activity in most of the markets in which we operate. It cannot be predicted when, or to what extent economic recovery might occur or even if the current level of recovery will continue. Actions taken by numerous governments throughout the world, including aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus actions by the U.S. government, may or may not be effective in addressing the economic problems that are the underlying causes of the recession. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The decline of demand for our products due to economic conditions or other factors in our specific targeted markets could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to factors affecting specific industrial, automotive, consumer, government, medical and telecommunications industries. From time to time, each of these industries has experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions, including inventory corrections that occur in specific supply chains. During fiscal 2010, sales increased substantially to customers in automotive markets due to a recovery in production levels in that sector. Sales recovered to a lesser extent in the consumer and industrial markets for the same reason. However, sales declined significantly to customers in telecommunications and medical markets due to inventory corrections and other reasons in these markets. We believe the economy has improved, but we are still in a period of reduced demand due to a decline in the economic conditions even in those markets that have shown partial recovery. A decline or significant shortfall in growth or a technology shift in any one of these markets could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and, therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our net sales and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the markets utilizing our products. Our products are produced throughout the world, causing us to be subject to a variety of regional economic conditions, which are outside our control. The strength of our competitors may impact our ability to maintain and grow sales and/or gross margins, which could decrease sales and/or selling prices. We do business in markets that are intensely competitive, manifesting generally declining average unit selling prices. We compete with companies that offer or are in the process of developing similar types of products and services to ours. Most of our significant competitors are much larger and better financed than we are. These competitors could execute sales strategies and tactics that could materially diminish our sales, causing a material adverse impact on not only our overall sales but also our gross margins. There can be no assurance that our products will be competitive with existing or future products, or that we will be able to establish or maintain a profitable cost structure and sales price environment for our products. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our current or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly, provide additional features, or both. We also face a competitive threat from current and prospective customers that evaluate purchasing our products versus the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors will emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to their existing products or future generations of competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. The cyclical nature of the electronics industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, sometimes connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product life cycles or declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, inventory obsolescence and accelerated erosion of average unit selling prices. We believe we are still in such a period of depressed general economic conditions. Any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any upturn in these industries could result in increased demand for, and possible shortages of, components we provide. We have seen some of these shortages beginning to develop. Such shortages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our inability to collect outstanding receivables and our dependence upon major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We grant credit to customers in a variety of commercial industries. Credit is extended based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition and collateral is not required. Our inability to collect receivables from a large customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do maintain credit insurance that mitigates our risk to some extent. However, not all customers are insurable and we may not be able to insure all of them to a full extent. In addition, our credit insurance carries a $200,000 deductible and a 10% coinsurance factor. Only one customer accounted for more than 10% of sales (at 18% of total sales) in our current year. Our strategy is to seek diversification in our sales to mitigate the risk of concentration on one or a few customers. We believe we have achieved a significant level of diversification in our customers, markets, products and geographic areas. However, due to the very competitive nature of the markets we serve, we may fail to consistently achieve such diversification. We rely on a limited number of OEMs as customers and the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, a substantial portion of our product sales has been to OEMs. The product and marketing decisions made by OEMs significantly affect the rate at which our products are used. We believe that some OEMs in certain industries receive a large portion of their revenues from sales of existing products to their current customer base, which we believe has moderated the rate at which they incorporate new products or technologies into their offerings. Furthermore, OEMs that manufacture and promote products and technologies that compete, or may compete, with us may be particularly reluctant to employ our products and technologies to any significant extent, if at all. We may not be able to maintain or improve the current rate at which our products are accepted by OEMs and others, which could decrease our sales. Our dependence on sales to international customers exposes us to additional risks. We consider all product sales with a delivery destination outside North America to be an international sale. International sales are denominated primarily in U.S. currency, although some European customers require that we sell in Euros. We have not entered into any hedging activities to mitigate the exchange risk associated with sales in foreign currency. We intend to continue our focus on international sales and we anticipate that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our business. However, international sales are subject to fluctuations as a result of local or regional economic conditions and competition. Therefore, we cannot predict whether we will be able to continue to derive similar levels of our business from international sales. International sales may also be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, timing and availability of export licenses, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. Moreover, and as a result of the ability to manage changes in currency exchange rates and other factors, our competitors may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a cost lower than ours. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Product returns and order cancellations could increase our inventory and reduce our sales. To the extent we have products manufactured in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels an outstanding order after it has been placed in production, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. In addition, while we may not be contractually obligated to accept returned products, and have typically not done so in the past, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relations with our customers. Product returns would increase our inventory and reduce our sales. We have had to write-down inventory in the past for reasons such as obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. We have few long-term volume commitments from our customers that are not subject to cancellation by the customer. Sales of our products are made through individual purchase orders and, in certain cases, are made under master agreements governing the terms and conditions of the relationships. Customers may change, cancel or delay orders with limited or no penalties. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and we expect to continue to experience similar cancellations and fluctuations in the future that could result in material adverse fluctuations in our revenues. Strategic Risks Our success depends on new product introductions, product transitioning and customer acceptance. We have a large amount of continuing sales of older products that tend to decline in popularity and average unit selling price over time. Only by developing new products can we replace sales of declining products and partially offset the impact of lower average unit selling prices. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new products to keep up with technological advances and to meet customer needs. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could incur additional operating costs with the introduction of new products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our planned product development or marketing efforts, or that we will have adequate financial or technical resources for our planned product development and promotion. In recent fiscal quarters we have slightly increased those resources to support our Wireless Solutions strategy. There is no assurance that those increased expenditures will result in increased sales. The introduction of future new products will require the expenditure of an unknown amount of funds for research and development, tooling, software development including licensing, manufacturing processes and inventory, as well as sales and marketing efforts. In order to successfully develop products, we will need to successfully anticipate market needs and may need to overcome rapid technological change and competition. In order to achieve high volume production, we need to outsource production to third parties or enter into licensing arrangements and successfully manage sub-contractors overseas as well as third party logistics providers. There can be no assurance that our products and services will achieve or maintain market acceptance, result in increased sales, or be profitable. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and is highly competitive with respect to timely product innovation. Our products are subject to obsolescence or price erosion because competitors are continuously introducing technologies with the same or similar capability as our technology. We are vulnerable to competitors that have greater resources to develop products that might prove to be technologically superior to ours. If customers perceive that competing products are superior to ours, they may shift their purchases to them. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our success depends on our management of growth, diversification and transition to value added products. Successful expansion or diversification of our operations will depend on our ability to obtain new customers, to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel, to secure and successfully manage adequate sources of supply on commercially reasonable terms and to successfully manage new product introductions. To manage growth or diversification effectively, we will have to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, procedures and controls. As we expand or diversify, we may from time-to-time experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand in a timely fashion. In the current year we have scaled back those resources in response to the recession. Failure to manage growth or diversification effectively despite this decrease in resources could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The transition to greater reliance on Wireless Solutions products involves new technologies and markets that are not similar to our other businesses, requiring us to learn and master new markets, competitors, and products to be successful. Our historical base business, predominantly centered in our Wireless Components segment, is generally declining. Only by successfully developing and introducing value added products and services to our customers can we offset this impact. Business Risks Variability of our gross profit margins could have a material adverse effect on our business. Gross margins of the Wireless Solutions segment, including low-power radios, RFICs and RF modules, are materially higher than those of our Wireless Components segment. Changes in product mix between these segments or even within them could have a negative impact on overall margins due to changes in product mix. This in fact occurred in the current year. In addition, we face the continuing negative impact of declining average unit selling price as a result of competitive conditions in the markets we serve. We expect the trend of lower prices to continue. Therefore, our ongoing efforts to reduce manufacturing costs are an important factor in maintaining gross margins. A lower volume of units sold and produced has a negative impact on margins because relatively material fixed manufacturing costs are spread over fewer units. Additionally, start-up or ramp-up costs for relatively new products entering the volume manufacturing process reduce our profitability. We continue to incur significant costs with regards to obsolete and slow moving inventory as a result of changes in market preferences and other factors. This factor could suddenly increase or decrease, depending on market conditions. We expect that our net sales and gross margin may vary significantly based on these and other factors, including the mix of products sold, the channels through which our products are sold, changes in product selling prices and component costs, the level of purchasing efficiencies achieved and pricing by competitors. Our average unit sales prices for products as they mature have historically declined, which we anticipate will continue and which can erode our gross profit margins. If we fail to achieve similar reductions in our cost of sales, any reduction in our gross profit margins resulting from reductions in average selling prices will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase unit sales volumes, introduce and sell new products or reduce our cost per unit in sufficient amounts to increase or even maintain acceptable gross margins. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. Existing stockholders may suffer with each adverse change in the market price of our common stock. The future market price of our common stock may be affected by a variety of factors. Most obviously, the price of our shares may suffer adversely if our future operating results are below the expectations of investors. The stock market in general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, experience extreme price fluctuations. The price volatility of our common stock is exacerbated because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. A significant price movement can be caused by the trading of a relatively small number of shares. We are dependent on our key personnel, whose continued service is not guaranteed. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our business is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel necessary for our business to succeed. In addition, if we lose the services of any of our key personnel and are not able to secure replacements in a timely manner, our business could be disrupted, which could contribute to other key personnel leaving, causing us to potentially incur increased operating expenses in identifying and compensating their replacements. Operational Risks Our reliance on limited contract manufacturers and our fabless business model could have a material adverse effect on our business. For several years we have relied upon contract manufacturers to assemble the bulk of our products. We have completely closed our Dallas, Texas manufacturing operations and adopted a “fabless” business model for virtually all of our products. This increased our reliance on outside contract manufacturers to the point that we rely almost exclusively on their ability to supply products to our customers. By using contract manufacturers, our ability to directly control the planning for inventories is reduced since we do not have control over their operations. If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers, following our guidance, are unable to respond promptly and timely to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to respond adequately to possible sudden increases in demand. Such a failure could result in lost sales, or late deliveries, which would negatively impact customer service and could ultimately result in lost sales. For each product, we normally have only one contract manufacturing source, so alternative sources of supply generally do not exist. To partially offset this risk, we do stock certain finished goods inventory items at our various logistics centers; however, this practice increases our costs and requires substantial working capital to support. In the case of customer order cancellations or decreases in demand, this may give rise to the Company being liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our contract manufacturers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our contract manufacturers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our contract manufacturers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to utilize such excess inventory in a timely manner, and are unable to sell excess components or products due to their customized nature, our operating results and liquidity would be negatively impacted. A majority of our products are manufactured overseas in Taiwan, the Philippines and Japan. Due to such geographic concentration, a disruption of the manufacturing operations, resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, governmental intervention or natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires or floods could cause us to cease or limit our manufacturing contractors’ operations and, consequently, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have substantial experience with our current contract manufacturers and believe those relationships are satisfactory. However, the contract manufacturing agreements have to be renewed periodically. If they are not renewed, we could experience a material interruption in our operations and, therefore, sales to customers, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Parts shortages, over-supplies and our dependence on raw material suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. The electronics and components industry is characterized by periodic shortages or over-supplies of parts. These fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, negatively affect our operations. Our ability to supply our customers’ changing demands is complicated by our recent experience of longer lead times from raw material suppliers. We are working with our customers and suppliers on addressing this, but near-term sales could be less than current demand due to our inability to supply these widely fluctuating requirements within the lead time requested by customers. Our supply chain has increased its safety stock of key raw materials and we are not aware that this has resulted in any significant loss of market share or long-term sales potential. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers and contractors for packages and semiconductor devices used in our products, and we have no long-term supply contracts with any of them. Some of our most important components are supplied to us on a sole source basis, due to the economics involved in qualifying and maintaining multiple sources. Due to the cyclical nature of these industries and competitive conditions, we, or our contract manufacturers, may experience difficulties in meeting our supply requirements in the future. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries of parts, either due to our loss of a supplier or due to industry-wide shortages, could delay shipments of our products, increase our cost of goods sold and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risk may be offset by inventory held by us or our contract manufacturers. In some cases, we are responsible for stocking raw materials, but most of it is held by our contract manufacturers. Delays in our manufacturing processes could reduce our sales. We continually endeavor to reduce our costs, which involves working with our contractors in their facilities, to offset the impact of a reduction in our average selling prices. These manufacturing processes are complex and involve procedures that are difficult to maintain if not carried out properly, which could result in incremental cost increases. A sudden deterioration in yields could result in increased costs and in shipping delays, for instance. We continue to assist our contractors in cost reductions to the fullest extent possible, but the primary responsibility for cost management resides with our contract manufacturers. If our contract manufacturers cannot reduce the cost of our products sufficiently, we could suffer serious erosion of our gross profit margins. Interruptions in our business due to terrorism and the uncertainty of war could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts that may result, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or business. These include, without limitation, the possibility that our insurance companies are unable to pay claims or that insurance may become unavailable or unaffordable. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Legal Risks Impact of Healthcare Legislation on our Cost Structure Our health benefit plan is a self-funded program in which we fund the payment of claims ourselves, subject to certain reinsurance limits per covered person and for the covered group in its entirety. On a historical basis, we have saved a material amount of money by utilizing this cost structure. Our risk under our self insured program is mitigated by reinsurance that covers individual claims over $75,000 and annual aggregate claims beyond an attachment point determined by the number of employees each month. We have been informed by our healthcare benefit advisors that one impact of the recent healthcare legislation relating to the elimination of lifetime benefit limits of insurers will be to make reinsurance much more costly in our next fiscal year. In future years, there is great uncertainty what the regulations governing medical plans will be. It is possible that our self funded program and its related reinsurance protection may be either no longer available to us or only available to us on a cost prohibitive basis. If we were forced to convert to a fully insured program, our costs would likely be much higher, perhaps by a material amount. Whether or not we will be able to absorb increased costs or required to pass some of those costs on to our employees is unknown. Given the uncertainty incident to the changing law in this area, it is not certain when or if we will be forced to convert to a fully insured health benefit program and what the associated costs would be. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part on our proprietary know-how, technology and patent rights. We have applied for additional patents. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will afford our products any competitive advantage or that any of our products will not be challenged or circumvented by third parties. Moreover, patents issued to others may adversely affect the sales, development or commercialization of our present or future products. We could be involved in claims and litigation over intellectual property rights, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. In addition, we have received, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights, which claims could result in litigation. Such litigation would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. In the event of an adverse outcome in such litigation, we could be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms could cause us to incur substantial costs and suspend manufacturing products using such technology. If we obtain a license, we would likely be required to make royalty payments for sales under the license. Such payments would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our gross profit. In addition, any litigation, whether as plaintiff or as defendant, would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our business. Many of our products and the industries in which they are used are subject to U.S. and foreign regulation. Governmental regulatory action could greatly reduce the market for our products. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Defects or errors in our products and services could harm our relations with customers and expose us to liability. In the course of our business, we may be subject to claims for product liability which could harm our relations with customers and for which our insurance coverage may have an exclusion or be inadequate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 