ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric face various risks associated with their businesses. While we have tried to identify below the risks we currently consider material, these risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking and other statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 15 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact our businesses and financial results. As used in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to PPL Energy Supply and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Supply and International Delivery segment discussions, or PPL Electric and PPL Gas Utilities and their consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Delivery segment discussion. Risks Related to Supply Segment (PPL and PPL Energy Supply) Adverse changes in commodity prices and related costs may decrease our future energy margins, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Our energy margins, or the amount by which our revenues from the sale of power exceed our costs of supplying power, are impacted by changes in the market prices for electricity, as well as fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel transportation costs, emission allowances, renewable energy credits, electricity transmission and related congestion charges and other costs. Unlike most other commodities, there is limited ability to store electric power and it must be consumed at the time of production. As a result, the wholesale market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Among the factors that can influence such prices are: · demand for electricity and supplies of electricity available from current or new generation resources; · variable production costs, primarily fuel (and the associated fuel transportation costs) and emission allowance expense, for the generation resources used to meet the demand for electricity; · transmission capacity and service into, or out of, markets served; · changes in the regulatory framework for wholesale power markets; · liquidity in the wholesale electricity market; and · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or the facilities necessary to deliver electricity. See Exhibit 99(b) for more information concerning the market fluctuations in wholesale energy, fuel and emission allowance prices over the past five years. Whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into or renew long-term power sales and fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements in order to mitigate market price and supply risk may affect our earnings. As a result of the PLR contracts and certain other agreements, a substantial portion of our anticipated generation production is currently committed through 2009 under power sales agreements of various terms that include fixed prices for our electric power. In connection with such agreements we have entered into longer-term fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements that include fixed prices. Whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into such agreements or renew existing agreements and the market conditions at that time will affect our financial performance. For instance, in the absence of long-term power sales agreements, we would sell the energy, capacity and other products from our facilities into the competitive wholesale power markets under contracts of shorter duration at then-current market prices. Although the current forward prices for electricity significantly exceed the prices available under some of our current power sales agreements, this situation may not continue. In addition, if we do not secure or maintain favorable fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements for our power generation facilities, our fuel costs (and the associated fuel transportation costs) could exceed the revenues that we derive from our energy sales. Given the volatility and potential for material differences between actual electricity prices and fuel and other costs, if we do not secure or maintain long-term electricity sales and fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements, our margins will be subject to increased volatility and, depending on future electricity and fuel costs (and the associated fuel transportation costs), our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities. We purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of weather, transportation difficulties, labor relations, environmental regulations or the financial viability of our fuel suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities, which could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Our generation facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our ability to manage operational risk with respect to our generation plants is critical to our financial performance. Operation of our power plants at expected capacity levels involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes and fuel interruption. In addition, weather and natural disasters can disrupt our generation plants. Weather conditions also have a direct impact on the river flows required to operate our hydroelectric plants at expected capacity levels. Depending on the timing and duration of both planned and unplanned complete or partial outages at our power plants (in particular, if such outages are during peak periods or during periods of, or caused by, severe weather), our revenues from energy sales could be significantly decreased and our expenses significantly increased, and we could be required to purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our energy sales commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for our failure to satisfy them. Many of our generating units are reaching mid-life, and we are faced with the potential for more frequent unplanned outages and the possibility of planned outages of longer duration to accommodate significant investments in major component replacements at these facilities. Changes in technology may impair the value of our power plants. A basic premise of our business is that generating electricity at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a relatively low price. There are other technologies for producing electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar) cells. Research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in the alternate technologies. It is possible that advances will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electric production to a level that is equal to or below that of most central station electric production. Also, as new technologies are developed and become available, the quantity and the pattern of electricity usage (the "demand") by customers could change, thus allowing them to reduce their purchases and the corresponding revenues that the generators receive. If this were to happen, the value of our generation facilities may be significantly impaired. We rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity and natural gas. If transmission is disrupted, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. The FERC has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electricity as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether ISOs in applicable markets will operate the transmission networks, and provide related services, efficiently. The PLR contracts do not provide for a specific level of supply, and demand significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins. PPL Electric is obligated to provide electricity supply to its PLR customers at predetermined capped rates through 2009 and has entered into PUC-approved, full requirements energy supply agreements with PPL EnergyPlus at the rates PPL Electric is entitled to charge its PLR customers in order to fulfill its PLR obligation. If PPL Electric's customers obtain electricity from alternate suppliers, which they are entitled to do at any time, PPL EnergyPlus' sales of electricity under the PLR contracts may decrease. Alternatively, demand that we satisfy pursuant to the PLR contracts could increase as a result of severe weather conditions, economic development or other reasons over which we have no control. We satisfy our electricity supply obligations through a portfolio approach of providing electricity from our generation assets, contractual relationships and market purchases. At December 31, 2006, the PLR requirements required about 80% of the normal operating capacity of our existing Pennsylvania generation assets. A significant increase in demand would adversely affect our energy margins because we are required under the terms of the PLR contracts to provide the energy supply to fulfill this increased demand at the capped rates, which we expect to remain significantly below the wholesale prices at which we would have to purchase the additional supply if needed or, if we had available capacity, the prices at which we could otherwise sell the additional supply. Accordingly, any significant increase in demand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. PPL Electric's PLR obligation after 2009 will be determined by the PUC pursuant to rules that have not yet been promulgated. While regulations governing PLR obligations after 2009 have been proposed for comment by the PUC, at this time, we cannot predict the content of the final regulations, including whether they will include requirements regarding the length, pricing or other terms of PLR contracts, or when the regulations will be finalized. We also cannot predict the extent to which PPL EnergyPlus will sell power to PPL Electric after 2009. We face intense competition in our energy supply business, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unlike our regulated delivery businesses, our energy supply business is not assured of any rate of return on our capital investments through predetermined rates, and our revenues and results of operations are dependent on our ability to operate in a competitive environment. An important focus of our supply business over the next several years will be the enhancement and expansion of our wholesale marketing and trading of electricity and related products and services, but we may not be successful because of the intense competition that we face in the deregulated electricity markets. Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact our ability to sell electricity and related products and services and the prices which we may charge for such products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to grow our business. Following the expiration of our existing power sales agreements, we currently expect to sell our available capacity into the competitive wholesale markets through contracts of various duration. Competition in the wholesale power markets will occur principally on the basis of the price of products and, to a lesser extent, on the basis of reliability and availability. We expect the commencement of commercial operation of new electric facilities in the regional markets where we own or control generation capacity will continue to increase the competitiveness of the wholesale electricity market in those regions, which could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for electricity. We also face competition in the wholesale markets for electricity capacity and ancillary services. We primarily compete with other electricity merchants based on our ability to aggregate supplies at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs. We also compete against other energy marketers on the basis of relative financial condition and access to credit sources, and many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have. Competitors in the wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL EnergyPlus operate include regulated utilities, industrial companies, non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities. In the past, PUHCA significantly restricted mergers and acquisitions and other investments in the electric utility sector. Entirely new competitors, including financial institutions, may enter the energy markets as a result of the repeal of PUHCA. The repeal of PUHCA also may lead to consolidation in our industry, resulting in competitors with significantly greater financial resources than we have. If the present trend towards competitive markets is reversed, discontinued or delayed, our business prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Some deregulated electricity markets have experienced supply problems and price volatility. In some of these markets, state legislators, government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to delay market restructuring, change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated or permit electricity delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities. For example, in 2001, the FERC instituted a series of price controls designed to mitigate (or cap) prices in the entire western U.S. to address the extreme volatility in the California electricity markets. These price controls have had the effect of significantly lowering spot and forward electricity prices in the western market. In addition, the independent system operators, or ISOs, that oversee the transmission systems in certain wholesale electricity markets have from time to time been authorized to impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may reduce the profits that our wholesale power marketing and trading business would have realized based on competitive market conditions absent such limitations and mechanisms. Although we generally expect electricity markets to continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action, affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in the states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. We are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale electricity markets. We purchase and sell electricity at the wholesale level under market-based tariffs authorized by the FERC throughout the United States and also enter into short-term agreements to market available electricity and capacity from our generation assets with the expectation of profiting from market price fluctuations. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and electricity under these agreements, we could be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or electricity and the contract price of the undelivered capacity or electricity. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale electricity markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned generation facility outages, transmissions disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement capacity and electricity. In addition, our power agreements typically include provisions requiring us to post collateral for the benefit of the counterparties if the market price of energy varies from the contract prices by certain thresholds. At December 31, 2006, we posted $228 million of collateral, in the form of letters of credit, under these contracts. Although we currently believe that we have sufficient liquidity facilities to fulfill our potential collateral obligations under these contracts, we have increased our available liquidity facilities to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2006, in order to satisfy these collateral obligations and to maintain our credit ratings due, in significant part, to the potential collateral requirements under these contracts. In addition, we expect to increase our available liquidity facilities in 2007 to support contracts that we expect to enter as we seek to expand our wholesale marketing and trading business, including power contracts for the sale of electricity that will become available following the expiration of our PLR contracts with PPL Electric. We also face credit risk that parties with whom we contract will default in their performance, in which case we may have to sell our electricity into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of contract. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means, including through agreements that require our counterparties to post collateral for our benefit if the market price of energy varies from the contract prices beyond certain thresholds. However, there can be no assurance that we will avoid counterparty non-performance. Counterparty non-performance could adversely impact our ability to fully meet our obligations to other parties, which could in turn subject us to claims for damages. We do not always hedge against risks associated with electricity and fuel price volatility. We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual electricity sales arrangements by either reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity or purchasing the necessary products and services through the competitive markets to satisfy our net firm sales contracts. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and electricity purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to weather conditions, fuel requirements and other electricity-related commodities. However, based on economic and other considerations, we may not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Our risk management policy and programs relating to electricity and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency and counterparties, may not work as planned, and we may suffer economic losses despite such programs. We actively manage the market risk inherent in our electricity and fuel, debt, foreign currency and counterparty credit positions. We have implemented procedures to enhance and monitor compliance with our risk management policy and programs, including validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, sensitivity analyses and daily portfolio reporting of various risk measurement metrics. Nonetheless, our risk management programs may not work as planned. For instance, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management positions. Similarly, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates could change in significant ways that our risk management procedures were not set up to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events lead to greater losses or costs than our risk management positions were intended to hedge. If our risk management positions are ineffective in this way, we could be subject to mark-to-market accounting with respect to certain of our risk management contracts, which could lead to significant volatility in our earnings and our balance sheet. In addition, our trading, marketing and risk management activities are exposed to the credit risk that counterparties that owe us money, electricity or fuel will breach their obligations. We have established a risk management policy and programs, including credit risk programs, to evaluate counterparty credit risk. However, if counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices. In that event, our financial results are likely to be adversely affected. Despite federal and state deregulation initiatives, our supply business is still subject to extensive regulation, which may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or prevent or delay operation of our facilities. Our U.S. generation subsidiaries sell electricity into the wholesale market. Generally, our generation subsidiaries and our marketing subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC has authorized us to sell generation from our facilities and power from our marketing subsidiaries at market-based prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw our market-based rate authority and to impose "cost of service" rates if it determines that the market is not workably competitive, that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable rates. Any reduction by the FERC in the rates we may receive or any unfavorable regulation of our business by state regulators could materially adversely affect our results of operations. See "FERC Market-Based Rate Authority" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for information regarding recent court decisions that could impact the FERC's market-based rate authority program. In addition, the acquisition, ownership and operation of electricity generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals, licenses and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approval or fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, the operation of our assets and our sales of electricity could be prevented or delayed or become subject to additional costs. Our planned generation growth plans may not achieve the desired financial results. We currently plan to expand our generation capacity over the next several years through power uprates at certain of our existing power plants, the potential construction of new power plants and the potential acquisition of existing plants. The acquisition, development and construction of additional generation capacity through any of these means involve numerous risks. Any planned power uprates could result in cost overruns, reduced plant efficiency and higher operating and other costs. With respect to the construction of new plants or the acquisition of existing plants, we may be required to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, resource exploration, legal and other expenses in preparation for competitive bids that we may not win or before it can be established whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. The success of both a new project and a newly-acquired plant would likely be contingent upon, among other things, the negotiation of satisfactory fuel supply and power sales contracts. Our success in developing a new plant would likely be contingent upon, among other things, negotiation of satisfactory engineering and construction contracts, receipt of required governmental permits and satisfactory completion of construction. If we were unable to complete the construction of a facility, we would generally not be able to recover our investment in the project. Furthermore, we may be unable to run any new or acquired plants as efficiently as projected, which could result in higher-than-projected operating and other costs and reduced earnings. Our costs to comply with existing and new environmental laws are expected to continue to be significant, and we plan to incur significant capital expenditures on pollution control measures that, if delayed, would adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. To comply with existing and future environmental requirements and as a result of voluntary pollution control measures we may take, we expect to spend substantial amounts in the future on environmental control and compliance. As a result of existing and recently-enacted federal environmental laws and regulations primarily governing air emissions from coal-burning plants, PPL's current installation plan for the scrubbers and other pollution control equipment (primarily aimed at sulfur dioxide, particulate, nitrogen oxides and mercury emissions reduction) through 2011 reflects a total cost of approximately $1.5 billion. Many states and environmental groups have challenged certain of the federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect, which could require us to incur significantly greater capital expenditures for pollution control equipment. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary for our planned capital projects or which are otherwise necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. Furthermore, at some of our older facilities it may be uneconomical for us to install the necessary equipment, which may cause us to shut down those generation units. There also is growing concern nationally and internationally about carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions (including concern about global warming). Various legislative proposals are being considered in Congress, and several states already have passed legislation capping carbon dioxide emissions. For more information regarding environmental matters, including the existing and proposed federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations to which we are subject, see "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements. We are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risk that our Susquehanna nuclear plant could become subject to revised security or safety requirements that would increase our capital and operating expenditures, and uncertainties associated with decommissioning our plant at the end of its licensed life. Nuclear generation accounted for about 30% of our 2006 generation output. The risks of nuclear generation generally include: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses and liabilities that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing requirements, as well as security-related and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, revised security or safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital or operating expenditures at our Susquehanna nuclear plant. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our Susquehanna plant, if an incident did occur, any resulting operational loss, damages and injuries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Risks Related to International Delivery Segment (PPL and PPL Energy Supply) Our international delivery businesses are also subject to risks with respect to rate regulation and operational performance. Like our Pennsylvania delivery businesses, our international delivery businesses are rate-regulated. In addition, their ability to manage operational risk is critical to their financial performance. Accordingly, these businesses are subject to the same risks as those described below under "Risks Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment." Our international delivery businesses expose us to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political and social conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks may reduce our results of operations from our delivery businesses. The acquisition, financing, development and operation of projects outside of the United States entail significant financial risks, which vary by country, including: · changes in foreign laws or regulations relating to foreign operations, including tax laws and regulations; · changes in United States laws related to foreign operations, including tax laws and regulations; · changes in government policies, personnel or approval requirements; · changes in general economic conditions affecting each country; · regulatory reviews of tariffs for local distribution companies; · severe weather and natural disaster impacts on the electric sector and our assets in each country; · material increases in the cost of generation supply for our local distribution customers; · changes in labor relations in foreign operations; · limitations on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or distributions to foreign investors; · limitations on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders and lack of local capital or loans; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and difficulty in converting our foreign funds to U.S. dollars, which can increase our expenses and/or impair our ability to meet such expenses, and difficulty moving funds out of the country in which the funds were earned; · limitations on the ability to import or export property and equipment; · compliance with United States foreign corrupt practices laws; · political instability and civil unrest; and · expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. Our international operations are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities. The laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the projects that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of those projects. In addition, the legal environment in foreign countries in which we currently own assets or projects or may develop projects in the future could make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects. Our international projects also may be subject to risks of being delayed, suspended or terminated by the applicable foreign governments or may be subject to risks of contract invalidation by commercial or governmental entities. Despite contractual or other protections we have against many of these risks for our international operations or potential investments in the future, our actual results and the value of our investments may be adversely affected by the occurrence of any of these events. Risks Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment (PPL and PPL Electric) Regulators may not approve the rates we request. Our Pennsylvania delivery businesses are rate-regulated. While such regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs, including energy supply costs for PLR customers, and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the rates that we may charge our delivery customers are subject to authorization of the applicable regulatory authorities, and there is no guarantee that the rates authorized by regulators will match our actual costs or provide a particular return on invested capital at any given time. Our transmission and distribution facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our ability to manage operational risk with respect to our transmission and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our delivery business. Our delivery business also faces several risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and labor disputes. Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. PPL Electric generally bears the risk, through 2009, that it will not be able to obtain adequate energy supply at the predetermined capped rates it may charge to its PLR customers. In order to mitigate the risk that we will not be able to obtain adequate energy supply, through 2009, at the predetermined capped rates we may charge to our PLR customers, we have entered into PUC-approved, full requirements energy supply agreements with PPL EnergyPlus at these capped rates. Under one of the PLR contracts, we are required to make performance assurance deposits with PPL EnergyPlus when the market price of electricity is less than the contract price by more than our contract collateral threshold. Conversely, PPL EnergyPlus is required to make performance assurance deposits with us when the market price of electricity is greater than the contract price by more than its contract collateral threshold. Over the past few years, market prices for electricity have exceeded the contract price, and we estimated that, at December 31, 2006, the market price of electricity exceeded the contract price in total by approximately $2.2 billion. Accordingly, at December 31, 2006, PPL EnergyPlus was required to provide us with performance assurance of $300 million, the maximum amount of collateral required under the contract. If PPL EnergyPlus is unable to satisfy its energy supply obligations to us under the PLR contracts, we would be required to obtain energy supply in the wholesale market at then-current market rates to meet our PLR obligation. While the Customer Choice Act provides generally for PLR costs to be borne by customers, it is not clear whether we would be able to pass on to our customers any costs of this replacement energy supply that exceed the predetermined capped rates. Our PLR obligation after 2009 will be determined by the PUC pursuant to rules that have not yet been promulgated. While regulations governing PLR obligations after 2009 have been proposed for comment by the PUC, at this time, we cannot predict the content of the final regulations, including the specific mechanism for recovery from customers of our costs for energy supply, or when the regulations will be finalized. Recognizing the uncertain status of the PLR rules, we have requested permission from the PUC to purchase generation supply in 2007 through 2009 to meet our PLR obligation in 2010 and to recover all costs of those purchases from our PLR customers in 2010. The request currently is pending before the PUC, and we cannot predict the outcome. We expect that PLR supply and cost recovery issues for 2011 and beyond will be addressed by the PLR rules. Other Risks Related to All Segments (PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric) Our operating results could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of severe weather conditions. Our businesses may be seasonal. For example, in some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during the hot summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in the cold winter months. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when severe weather conditions such as heat waves, extreme cold weather or storms make such fluctuations more pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the nature and location of the facilities we acquire or develop and the terms of our contracts to sell electricity. We cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently being conducted with respect to our current and past business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues" and in "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case. We may need significant additional financing to pursue growth opportunities. We continually review potential acquisitions and development projects and may enter into significant acquisition agreements or development commitments in the future. An acquisition agreement or development commitment may require access to substantial capital from outside sources on acceptable terms. We also may need external financing to fund capital expenditures, including capital expenditures necessary to comply with environmental regulations or other regulatory requirements. Our ability to arrange financing and our cost of capital are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic conditions, credit availability and our financial performance. The inability to obtain sufficient financing on terms that are acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and fund capital expenditures. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new debt. Our current credit ratings by Moody's, Fitch and S&P are listed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." While we do not expect these ratings to limit our ability to fund our short-term liquidity needs and/or access any new long-term debt, any ratings downgrades could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect our ability to fund our short-term liquidity needs and access new long-term debt. Significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including our health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. We continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures, especially with respect to health care and pension costs. Pursuant to our collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide specified levels of health care and pension benefits to current employees and retirees covered by the contracts, and we provide a similar level of benefits to our management employees, which benefits give rise to significant expenses. We have experienced significant health care cost inflation in the last few years, and we expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to continue to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to experience significant costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans that we sponsor for our employees and retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our costs could be significantly increased. There is a risk that we may be required to record impairment charges in the future for certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our earnings. Under GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. While no goodwill impairments were required based on our annual review in the fourth quarter of 2006, we are unable to predict whether any impairment charges may be necessary in the future. We also review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. During 2006, PPL recorded a loss on the sale of our interest in the Griffith plant and fully impaired our synfuel-related assets. See Notes 10 and 15 to the Financial Statements. We are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other losses on sale of other assets or businesses, may be necessary in the future. In particular, our ability to recover our investment in our gas-fired generation facilities, and to avoid any future impairment charges with respect to these assets, will depend upon future electricity and fuel price levels (which are subject to substantial fluctuations), as well as applicable accounting rules and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS PPL Corporation, PPL Energy Supply, LLC and PPL Electric Utilities Corporation None. ITEM 