ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and apply to all sections of this Form 10-K. This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains statements indicating expectations about future performance and other forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We usually use words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “future,” “intend,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear throughout the Form 10-K and are statements regarding our current intent, belief, or expectation, primarily with respect to our operations and related industry developments. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the following: our expansion plans, our future operating expenses, our future losses, our future expenditures for research and development and the sufficiency of our cash resources. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our history of operating losses and our expectation of continuing losses may hurt our ability to reach profitability or continue operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our net loss was $7,420,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and our accumulated deficit was $144,128,000 as of December 31, 2010. It is likely that we will continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our ability to continue operations. To achieve profitable operations, we must successfully develop and market our products at higher margins. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or yearly basis. Because we depend upon sales to a limited number of customers, our revenues will be reduced if we lose a major customer Our revenue is dependent on significant orders from a limited number of customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with major customers establishing product and price standards for future periods. Subsequent events may change the needs of the customer, requiring us to make corresponding adjustments. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, Smith accounted for 45% of our total revenues and our three largest customers, inclusive of Smith, comprised 85% of revenues. We believe that revenues from major customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant customers could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our success 13 Table of Contents will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. Our future growth depends on consumers’ willingness to accept hybrid and electric vehicles Our growth is highly dependent upon the acceptance by consumers of, and we are subject to an elevated risk of any reduced demand for, alternative fuel vehicles in general and electric vehicles in particular. If the market for electric vehicles does not develop as we expect or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. The market for alternative fuel vehicles is relatively new, rapidly evolving, characterized by rapidly evolving and changing technologies, price competition, additional competitors and changing consumer demands or behaviors. Factors that may influence the acceptance of alternative fuel vehicles, include: • perceptions about alternative fuel vehicles safety (in particular with respect to lithium-ion battery packs), design, performance and cost, especially if adverse events or accidents occur that are linked to the quality or safety of alternative fuel vehicles; • volatility in the cost of oil and gasoline; • consumer’s perceptions of the dependency of the United States on oil from unstable or hostile countries; • improvements in fuel of the internal combustion engine; • the environmental consciousness of consumers; • government regulation • macroeconomics We extend credit to our customers, which exposes us to credit risk Most of our outstanding accounts receivable are from a limited number of large customers. At December 31, 2010, the three highest outstanding accounts receivable balances totaled approximately $2,482,000 which represents 83% of our gross accounts receivable. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively the resulting credit risk and a material portion of our accounts receivable is not paid in a timely manner or becomes uncollectible, our business would be significantly harmed, and we could incur a significant loss associated with any outstanding accounts receivable. Our business is affected by current economic and financial market conditions in the markets we serve Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the significant and potentially prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are particularly impacted by any global automotive slowdown and its effects on OEM inventory levels, production schedules, support for our products and decreased ability to accurately forecast future product demand. The nature of our industry is dependent on technological advancement and is highly competitive The mobile power market, including electric vehicle and hybrid electric vehicles, continue to be subject to rapid technological changes. Most of the major domestic and foreign automobile manufacturers: (1) have already produced electric and hybrid vehicles, (2) have developed improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems, and/or (3) are now entering or have entered into production, while continuing to improve technology or incorporate newer technology. Various companies are also developing improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems. Our industry is affected by political and legislative changes In recent years there has been significant legislation enacted in the United States and abroad to reduce or eliminate automobile pollution, promote or mandate the use of vehicles with no tailpipe emissions (“zero emission 14 Table of Contents vehicles”) or reduced tailpipe emissions (“low emission vehicles”). Although states such as California have enacted such legislation, we cannot assure you that there will not be further legislation enacted changing current requirements or that current legislation or state mandates will not be repealed or amended, or that a different form of zero emission or low emission vehicle will not be invented, developed and produced, and achieve greater market acceptance than electric or hybrid electric vehicles. We may be unable to effectively compete with other companies who have significantly greater resources than we have Many of our competitors, in the automotive, electronic, and other industries, have substantially greater financial, personnel, and other resources than we do. Because of their greater resources, some of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sales of their products than we can. We may be exposed to product liability or tort claims if our products fail, which could adversely impact our results of operations A malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability or other tort claims. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. We are highly dependent on a few key personnel and will need to retain and attract such personnel in a labor competitive market Our success is largely dependent on the performance of our key management and technical personnel, the loss of one or more of whom could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to successfully implement our anticipated growth, we will be dependent on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or hire other necessary personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional highly skilled personnel in an increasingly competitive market. There are minimal barriers to entry in our market We presently license or own only certain proprietary technology, and therefore have created little or no barrier to entry for competitors other than the time and significant expense required to assemble and develop similar production and design capabilities. Our competitors may enter into exclusive arrangements with our current or potential suppliers, thereby giving them a competitive edge which we may not be able to overcome, and which may exclude us from similar relationships. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 