Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. Below are some of the material risks that we face. Credit Risk and Loan Concentration: A major risk facing lenders is the risk of losing principal and interest as a result of a borrower’s failure to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement, or “credit risk.” Real estate loans include residential mortgages and construction and commercial loans secured by real estate. The Company’s credit risk with respect to its real estate loans relates principally to the value of the underlying collateral. The Company’s credit risk with respect to its commercial loans relates principally to the general creditworthiness of the borrowers, who primarily are individuals and small and medium-sized businesses in the Company’s primary service areas. There can be no assurance that the allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover future losses in the existing loan portfolios. Loan losses exceeding the Company’s historical rates could have a material adverse affect on the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Changes in interest rates may also negatively impact earnings if rate sensitive assets and liabilities are not properly matched. Potential Impact of Change in Interest Rates: The earnings of the Company depends to a large extent upon its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The net interest income of the Company would be adversely affected if changes in market interest rates resulted in the interest-bearing assets of the Company being reduced because of softening loan demand. In addition, a decline in interest rates may result in greater than normal prepayments of the higher interest-bearing obligations held by the Company. Management Information Systems: The sophistication and level of risk of the Company’s business requires the utilization of thorough and accurate management information systems. Failure of management to effectively implement, maintain, update and utilize updated management information systems could prevent management from recognizing in a timely manner deterioration in the performance of its business, particularly its loan portfolios. Such failure to effectively implement, maintain, update and utilize comprehensive management information systems could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Potential Impact of Significant Growth: The Company has grown loans, deposits, fee businesses, and employees rapidly both internally and through acquisition. The ability of the Company to manage this growth in a disciplined manner is imperative. The Company must thoroughly plan on how to support this growth from a human resources, training, operational, financial and technology standpoint. Also, high management and employee turnover during a period of rapid growth could have a negative impact on internal controls. The failure to successfully manage this growth could have a material adverse effect on the operating results and financial conditions of the company. Adverse Economic Conditions: The Company’s major lending activities are real estate and commercial loans. Residential mortgage loans are also produced for resale. An increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the housing industries and consumer spending generally. In addition, an increase in interest rates could cause a decline in the value of residential mortgages. These events could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Governmental Regulation – Banking: The Parent Company and the Bank are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and control by several Federal and State governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, FDIC, and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Future legislation, regulations and government policy could adversely affect the Company and the financial institutions industry as a whole, including the cost of doing business. Although the impact of such legislation, regulation and policies cannot be predicted, future changes may alter the structure of and competitive relationships among financial institutions. Consumer and Debtor Protection Laws: The Company is subject to numerous Federal and State consumer protection laws that impose requirements related to offering and extending credit. The United States Congress and state governments may enact laws and amend existing laws to regulate further the consumer industry or to reduce finance charges or other fees or charges applicable to credit card and other consumer revolving loan accounts. Such laws, as well as any new laws or rulings which may be adopted, may adversely affect the Company’s ability to collect on account 16 Table of Contents balances or maintain previous levels of finance charges and other fees and charges with respect to the accounts. Any failure by the Company to comply with such legal requirements also could adversely affect its ability to collect the full amount of the account balances. Changes in federal and state bankruptcy and debtor relief laws could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company if such changes result in, among other things, additional administrative expenses and accounts being written off as uncollectible. Composition of Real Estate Loan Portfolio: The real estate loan portfolio of the Company includes residential mortgages and construction and commercial loans secured by real estate. The Company generates most of its real estate mortgage loans in Georgia. Therefore, conditions of this real estate market could strongly influence the level of the Company’s non-performing mortgage loans and the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Real estate values and the demand for mortgages and construction loans are affected by, among other things, changes in general or local economic conditions, changes in governmental rules or policies, the availability of loans to potential purchasers, and acts of nature. Although the Company’s underwriting standards are intended to protect the Company against adverse general and local real estate trends, declines in real estate markets could adversely impact the demand for new real estate loans, and the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 