Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains statements indicating expectations about future performance and other forward-looking statements that involve 15 Table of Contents risks and uncertainties. We usually use words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “future,” “intend,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear throughout the Form 10-K and are statements regarding our current intent, belief, or expectation, primarily with respect to our operations and related industry developments. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the following: our expansion plans, our future operating expenses, our future losses, our future expenditures for research and development and the sufficiency of our cash resources. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We may not have net operating losses in the future against which to offset our future profits, if any We have experienced recurring losses from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $107,422,000 at December 31, 2006. There is no assurance, however, that any net operating losses will be available to us in the future as an offset against future profits, if any, for income tax purposes. We have experienced continued losses and may never become profitable For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had net losses of $4,836,000, $2,127,000, $3,382,000, and $3,186,000, respectively, on sales of $1,666,000, $6,084,000, $2,554,000, and $4,310,000, respectively. We may never become profitable, which may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. The nature of our industry is dependent on technological advancement and highly competitive The mobile and stationary power markets, including electric vehicle and hybrid electric vehicles, continue to be subject to rapid technological change. Most of the major domestic and foreign automobile manufacturers: (1) have already produced electric and hybrid vehicles, and/or (2) have developed improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems, and/or (3) are now entering or have entered into production, while continuing to improve technology or incorporate newer technology. Various companies are also developing improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems. In addition, the stationary power market is still in its infancy. A number of established energy companies are developing new technologies. Cost-effective methods to reduce price per kilowatt have yet to be established and the stationary power market is not yet viable. Our current products are designed for use with, and are dependent upon, existing technology. As technologies change, and subject to our limited available resources, we plan to upgrade or adapt our products in order to continue to provide products with the latest technology. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to avoid technological obsolescence, that the market for our products will not ultimately be dominated by technologies other than ours, or that we will be able to adapt to changes in or create “leading — edge” technology. In addition, further proprietary technological development by others could prohibit us from using our own technology. 16 Table of Contents Our industry is affected by political and legislative changes In recent years there has been significant public pressure to enact legislation in the United States and abroad to reduce or eliminate automobile pollution. Although states such as California have enacted such legislation, we cannot assure you that there will not be further legislation enacted changing current requirements or that current legislation or state mandates will not be repealed or amended, or that a different form of zero emission or low emission vehicle will not be invented, developed and produced, and achieve greater market acceptance than electric or hybrid electric vehicles. Extensions, modifications or reductions of current federal and state legislation, mandates and potential tax incentives could also adversely affect our business prospects if implemented. We are subject to increasing emission regulations in a changing legislative climate Because vehicles powered by internal combustion engines cause pollution, there has been significant public pressure in Europe and Asia, and enacted or pending legislation in the United States at the federal level and in certain states, to promote or mandate the use of vehicles with no tailpipe emissions (“zero emission vehicles”) or reduced tailpipe emissions (“low emission vehicles”). Legislation requiring or promoting zero or low emission vehicles is necessary to create a significant market for electric vehicles. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) is continuing to modify its regulations regarding its mandatory limits for zero emission and low emission vehicles. Furthermore, several car manufacturers have challenged these mandates in court and have obtained injunctions to delay these mandates. There are substantial risks involved in the development of unproven products In order to remain competitive, we must adapt existing products as well as develop new products and technologies. In fiscal years 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent collectively in excess of $3.5 million on research and development of new products and technology. Despite our best efforts a new product or technology may prove to be unworkable, not cost effective, or otherwise unmarketable. We cannot assure you that any new product or technology we may develop will be successful or that an adequate market for such product or technology will ever develop. We may be unable to effectively compete with other companies who have significantly greater resources than we have Many of our competitors, in the automotive, electronic and other industries, are larger, more established companies that have substantially greater financial, personnel, and other resources than we do. These companies may be actively engaged in the research and development of power management and conversion systems. Because of their greater resources, some of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sales of their products than we can. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, manufacturing capability and sales and marketing. We cannot assure you however that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to do so. In addition, current and potential competitors may establish collaborative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including third parties with whom we have relationships. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Potential intellectual property, shareholder or other litigation could adversely impact our business Because of the nature of our business, we may face litigation relating to intellectual property matters, labor matters, product liability or shareholder disputes. Any litigation could be costly, divert management attention or result in increased costs of doing business. Although we intend to vigorously defend any future lawsuits, we cannot assure you that we would ultimately prevail in these efforts. An adverse judgment could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms or at all. 17 Table of Contents We may be exposed to product liability or tort claims if our products fail, which could adversely impact our results of operations A malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability or other tort claims. Accidents involving our products could lead to personal injury or physical damage. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are an early growth stage company Although we were originally founded in 1976, many aspects of our business are still in the early growth stage development, and our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a start-up or growing business enterprise, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. Enova is relatively new in focusing its efforts on electric systems, hybrid systems and fuel cell management systems. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications, and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of an existing business, the development of new products and channels of distribution, and current and future development in several key technical fields, as well as the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate. We are highly dependent on a few key personnel and will need to retain and attract such personnel in a labor competitive market Our success is largely dependent on the performance of our key management and technical personnel, the loss of one or more of whom could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to successfully implement our anticipated growth, we will be dependent on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or hire other necessary personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional highly skilled personnel in an increasingly competitive market. There are minimal barriers to entry in our market We presently license or own only certain proprietary technology and, therefore, have created little or no barrier to entry for competitors other than the time and significant expense required to assemble and develop similar production and design capabilities. Our competitors may enter into exclusive arrangements with our current or potential suppliers, thereby giving them a competitive edge which we may not be able to overcome, and which may exclude us from similar relationships. We extend credit to our customers, which exposes us to credit risk Most of our outstanding accounts receivable are from a limited number of large customers. At December 31, 2006, the five highest outstanding accounts receivable balances totaled $494,000, representing 80% of our gross accounts receivable, with one customer accounting for $221,000, representing 36% of our gross accounts receivable. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively the resulting credit risk and a material portion of our accounts receivable is not paid in a timely manner or becomes uncollectible, our business would be significantly harmed, and we could incur a significant loss associated with any outstanding accounts receivable. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, PMB Helin Donovan, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, notified our management and audit committee of the existence of “significant deficiencies in internal controls,” which is an accounting term for internal controls deficiencies that, in the judgment of our independent registered public accounting firm, are significant and which could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information. 18 Table of Contents PMB Helin Donovan concluded that these significant deficiencies constituted a “material weakness” in our internal controls. Auditing literature defines “material weakness” as a particularly serious reportable condition where the internal control does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by error or fraud may occur in amounts that would be material in relation to the financial statements and the risk that such misstatements would not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective controls over the inventory pricing, tracking, and the reserve analysis process. This control deficiency resulted in an audit adjustment to our 2006 financial statements and could result in a misstatement to inventory and cost of sales that would result in a material misstatement to the annual and interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management has determined that this deficiency constituted a material weakness. Under the current SEC rules and regulations as we understand them, for the fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2007, our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to make its own assessment for the fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2008. While we intend to address these material weaknesses and have begun efforts to remediate these material weaknesses, including, subsequent to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, the hiring of a Chief Financial Officer and a Controller to oversee the remedial process, there is no assurance that this will be accomplished. These efforts may necessitate significant time and attention of our management and additional resources. If we fail to satisfactorily strengthen the effectiveness of our internal controls, neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm may be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 