ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and apply to all sections of this Form 10-K. This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains statements indicating expectations about future performance and other forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We usually use words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “future,” “intend,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear throughout the Form 10-K and are statements regarding our current intent, belief, or expectation, primarily with respect to our operations and related industry developments. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the following: our expansion plans, our future operating expenses, our future losses, our future expenditures for research and development and the sufficiency of our cash resources. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We may be forced into bankruptcy if we cannot reach a settlement with our two major creditors Enova owes in excess of $4.5 million in aggregate to its two principal creditors, Arens Controls Company, L.L.C. (“Arens”) and the Credit Managers Association. Without immediate additional financing or collection of receivables, the company will need to cease operations. The Company currently has no visibility as to either additional financing or the collection of receivables. Specifically, without a mutually acceptable settlement of the Arens Judgment arising out of Arens Controls Company, L.L.C. v. Enova Systems, Inc., Case No. 13-1102 (7th Circuit) in the amount of $2,014,169, the company does not currently believe it has any alternative other than to cease operations. Our common stock has been delisted from the NYSE MKT On October 24, 2012, the Company received notification from the NYSE MKT (the "Exchange") stating that, because the Company was not in compliance with certain of the Exchange's continued listing standards, the Exchange intended to strike the common stock of the Company from the Exchange by filing a delisting application with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Company previously disclosed in Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 20, 2012, May 29, 2012, July 6, 2012, and October 24, 2012 the provisions of the Exchange's continued listing standards with which the Company was not in compliance. The Company did not request an appeal of the Exchange's delisting determination. -9- Table of Contents Effective October 31, 2012, the Company’s common shares were delisted from the Exchange and, on the same date, trading of the Company’s shares commenced on the OTCQB Marketplace under the trading symbol "ENVS". The OTCQB is a market tier operated by the OTC Market Group Inc. for over-the-counter traded companies. The delisting and transition to the OTCQB does not change the Company's obligations to file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable federal securities laws. As a result of the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE MKT, we believe that the price and liquidity of our common stock, and our ability to raise funds from the sale of equity in the future, will be materially affected. Raising additional funds by issuing securities, engaging in debt financings or through licensing arrangements may cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities as we did in 2011, April 2012 and May 2012, our existing stockholders’ ownership may be substantially diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations or our ability to enter into other funding arrangements. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. One group of our shareholders holds a large percentage of our outstanding common stock, and, should they choose to do so, may have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock is held by a group of 17 shareholders (the “Low-Beer Managed Accounts”) who invested in our December 2011 placement of 11,250,000 shares of common stock together with warrants to purchase up to 11,250,000 shares of common stock. The warrants are exercisable for a period of five years and exercisable at a price of $0.22 per share. The warrants further provide that if, for a twenty consecutive trading day period, the average of the closing price quoted on the OTCQB market is greater than or equal to $0.44 per share, with at least an average of 10,000 shares traded per day, then, on the 10th calendar day following written notice from the Company, any outstanding warrants will be deemed automatically exercised pursuant to the cashless/net exercise provisions under the warrants. Accordingly, the Low-Beer Managed Accounts, should they choose to do so, may be able to significantly influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction, and such group of investors could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The interests of the Low-Beer Managed Accounts may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. -10- Table of Contents Funding from our equity lines of credit may be limited or be insufficient to fund our operations or to implement our strategy. Under our purchase agreements with Lincoln Park, we may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $3,400,000 of shares of common stock over a 36 month period, and, upon effectiveness of a registration statement for resale of the shares and subject to other conditions, we also may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $6,600,000 of our shares of common stock over a 36 month period. The amounts available for purchase is limited under each purchase agreement. The extent to which we rely on Lincoln Park as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the amount, if any, of additional working capital needed, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If we are unable to sell enough of our products to finance our working capital requirements and if sufficient funding from Lincoln Park were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, we would need to secure another source of funding. Even if we sell all $10,000,000 under the aggregate purchase agreements to Lincoln Park, there can be no assurance this would be sufficient to support our operations or implement our growth plans in all cases. Our history of operating losses and our expectation of continuing losses may hurt our ability to reach profitability or continue operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our net loss was $8,235,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 and our accumulated deficit was $159,347,000 as of December 31, 2012. It is likely that we will continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our ability to continue operations. To achieve profitable operations, we must successfully develop and market our products at higher margins. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or yearly basis. We are dependent on access to capital markets in order to fund continued operations of the Company. We do not currently have adequate internal liquidity to fund the Company’s operations on an ongoing basis. We will need to continue to look for partnering opportunities and other external sources of liquidity, including the public and private financial markets and strategic partners. We may not be able to obtain financing arrangements in amounts or on terms acceptable to us in the future. In the event we are unable to obtain additional financing when needed, and without substantial reductions in development programs and strategic initiatives, we do not expect that our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for the twelve months following December 31, 2012. Because we depend upon sales to a limited number of customers, our revenues will be reduced if we lose a major customer Our revenue is dependent on significant orders from a limited number of customers. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, our two largest customers comprised 83% of revenues. We believe that revenues from major customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant customers could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. -11- Table of Contents Our future growth depends on consumers’ willingness to accept hybrid and electric vehicles Our growth is highly dependent upon the acceptance by consumers of, and we are subject to an elevated risk of any reduced demand for, alternative fuel vehicles in general and electric vehicles in particular. If the market for electric vehicles does not develop as we expect or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. The market for alternative fuel vehicles is relatively new, rapidly evolving, characterized by rapidly evolving and changing technologies, price competition, additional competitors and changing consumer demands or behaviors. Factors that may influence the acceptance of alternative fuel vehicles include: • perceptions about alternative fuel vehicles safety (in particular with respect to lithium-ion battery packs), design, performance and cost, especially if adverse events or accidents occur that are linked to the quality or safety of alternative fuel vehicles; • volatility in the cost of oil and gasoline; • consumer’s perceptions of the dependency of the United States on oil from unstable or hostile countries; • improvements in fuel of the internal combustion engine; • the environmental consciousness of consumers; • government regulation • macroeconomics We extend credit to our customers, which exposes us to credit risk Most of our outstanding accounts receivable are from a limited number of large customers. At December 31, 2012, the two highest outstanding accounts receivable balances totaled approximately $560,000 which represents 100% of our gross accounts receivable. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively the resulting credit risk and a material portion of our accounts receivable is not paid in a timely manner or becomes uncollectible, our business would be significantly harmed, and we could incur a significant loss associated with any outstanding accounts receivable. Our business is affected by current economic and financial market conditions in the markets we serve Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the significant and potentially prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are particularly impacted by any global automotive slowdown and its effects on OEM inventory levels, production schedules, support for our products and decreased ability to accurately forecast future product demand. The nature of our industry is dependent on technological advancement and is highly competitive The mobile power market, including electric vehicle and hybrid electric vehicles, continue to be subject to rapid technological changes. Most of the major domestic and foreign automobile manufacturers: (1) have already produced electric and hybrid vehicles, (2) have developed improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems, and/or (3) are now entering or have entered into production, while continuing to improve technology or incorporate newer technology. Various companies are also developing improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems. Our industry is affected by political and legislative changes In recent years there has been significant legislation enacted in the United States and abroad to reduce or eliminate automobile pollution, promote or mandate the use of vehicles with no tailpipe emissions (“zero emission vehicles”) or reduced tailpipe emissions (“low emission vehicles”). Although states such as California have enacted such legislation, we cannot assure you that there will not be further legislation enacted changing current requirements or that current legislation or state mandates will not be repealed or amended, or that a different form of zero emission or low emission vehicle will not be invented, developed and produced, and achieve greater market acceptance than electric or hybrid electric vehicles. -12- Table of Contents We may be unable to effectively compete with other companies who have significantly greater resources than we have Many of our competitors, in the automotive, electronic, and other industries, have substantially greater financial, personnel, and other resources than we do. Because of their greater resources, some of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sales of their products than we can. We may be exposed to product liability or tort claims if our products fail, which could adversely impact our results of operations A malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability or other tort claims. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. We are highly dependent on a few key personnel and will need to retain and attract such personnel in a labor competitive market Our ability to continue in business is dependent on the performance of key management and technical personnel, the loss of whom could severely affect our business. Additionally, in order to successfully implement any future growth, we will be dependent on our ability to generate resources necessary to hire qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or hire necessary personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled personnel in an increasingly competitive market. We are highly dependent on a few vendors for key system components made to our engineering specifications and disruption of vendor supply could adversely impact our results of operations. Our product specifications often involve upfront investment in tooling and machinery, which result in our commitment to a limited number of high quality vendors that can meet our manufacturing standards. Any disruption to our supply of key components from the suppliers would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There are minimal barriers to entry in our market We presently license or own only certain proprietary technology, and therefore have created little or no barrier to entry for competitors other than the time and significant expense required to assemble and develop similar production and design capabilities. Our competitors may enter into exclusive arrangements with our current or potential suppliers, thereby giving them a competitive edge which we may not be able to overcome, and which may exclude us from similar relationships. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 