Item 1A. Risk Factors This Form 10-K contains forward looking statements concerning our existing and future products, markets, expenses, revenues, liquidity, performance and cash needs as well as our plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on current management's expectations and we are not obligated to update this information. Many factors could cause actual results and events to differ significantly from the results anticipated by us and described in these forward looking statements including, but not limited to, the following risk factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In those cases, the trading of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment. We may not have net operating losses in the future against which to offset our future profits, if any. We have experienced recurring losses from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $102,586,000 at December 31, 2005. There is no assurance, however, that any net operating losses will be available to us in the future as an offset against future profits, if any, for income tax purposes. We have experienced continued losses and may never become profitable. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we had net losses of $2,127,000, $3,382,000, $3,186,000, and $3,598,000, respectively, on sales of $6,084,000, $2,554,000, $4,310,000, and $4,455,000, respectively. We may never become profitable, which may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. The nature of our industry is dependent on technological advancement and highly competitive. The mobile and stationary power markets, including electric vehicle and hybrid electric vehicles, continue to be subject to rapid technological change. Most of the major domestic and foreign automobile manufacturers: (1) have already produced electric and hybrid vehicles, and/or (2) have developed improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems, and/or (3) are now entering or have entered into production, while continuing to improve technology or incorporate newer technology. Various companies are also developing improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems. In addition, the stationary power market is still in its infancy. A number of established energy companies are developing new technologies. Cost-effective methods to reduce price per kilowatt have yet to be established and the stationary power market is not yet viable. Our current products are designed for use with, and are dependent upon, existing technology. As technologies change, and subject to our limited available resources, we plan to upgrade or adapt our products in order to continue to provide products with the latest technology. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to avoid technological obsolescence, that the market for our products will not ultimately be dominated by technologies other than ours, or that we will be able to adapt to changes in or create "leading-edge" technology. In addition, further proprietary technological development by others could prohibit us from using our own technology. Our industry is affected by political and legislative changes. In recent years there has been significant public pressure to enact legislation in the United States and abroad to reduce or eliminate automobile pollution. Although states such as California have enacted such legislation, we cannot assure you that there will not be further legislation enacted changing current requirements or that current legislation or state mandates will not be repealed or amended, or that a different form of zero emission or low emission vehicle will not be invented, developed and produced, and achieve greater market acceptance than electric or hybrid electric vehicles. Extensions, modifications or reductions of current federal and state legislation, mandates and potential tax incentives could also adversely affect our business prospects if implemented. We are subject to increasing emission regulations in a changing legislative climate. Because vehicles powered by internal combustion engines cause pollution, there has been significant public pressure in Europe and Asia, and enacted or pending legislation in the United States at the federal level and in certain states, to promote or mandate the use of vehicles with no tailpipe emissions ("zero emission vehicles") or reduced tailpipe emissions ("low emission vehicles"). Legislation requiring or promoting zero or low emission vehicles is necessary to create a significant market for electric vehicles. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) is continuing to modify its regulations regarding its mandatory limits for zero emission and low emission vehicles. Furthermore, several car manufacturers have challenged these mandates in court and have obtained injunctions to delay these mandates. There are substantial risks involved in the development of unproven products. In order to remain competitive, we must adapt existing products as well as develop new products and technologies. In fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, we spent collectively in excess of $2.5 million on research and development of new products and technology. Despite our best efforts a new product or technology may prove to be unworkable, not cost effective, or otherwise unmarketable. We 14 cannot assure you that any new product or technology we may develop will be successful or that an adequate market for such product or technology will ever develop. We may be unable to effectively compete with other companies who have significantly greater resources than we have. Many of our competitors, in the automotive, electronic and other industries, are larger, more established companies that have substantially greater financial, personnel, and other resources than we do. These companies may be actively engaged in the research and development of power management and conversion systems. Because of their greater resources, some of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sales of their products than we can. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, manufacturing capability and sales and marketing. We cannot assure you however that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to do so. In addition, current and potential competitors may establish collaborative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including third parties with whom we have relationships. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Future equity financings may dilute your holdings in our Company. We may need to obtain additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, collaborative agreements or from other sources. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, current shareholders may experience significant dilution of their holdings. We may be unable to obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds, we may be required to reduce significantly our spending and delay, scale back or eliminate research, development or marketing programs, or cease operations altogether. Potential intellectual property, shareholder or other litigation could adversely impact our business. Because of the nature of our business, we may face litigation relating to intellectual property matters, labor matters, product liability or shareholder disputes. Any litigation could be costly, divert management attention or result in increased costs of doing business. Although we intend to vigorously defend any future lawsuits, we cannot assure you that we would ultimately prevail in these efforts. An adverse judgment could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms or at all. We may be exposed to product liability or tort claims if our products fail, which could adversely impact our results of operations. A malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability or other tort claims. Accidents involving our products could lead to personal injury or physical damage. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market's perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are highly subject to general economic conditions. The financial success of our company is sensitive to adverse changes in general economic conditions, such as inflation, unemployment, and consumer demand for our products. These changes could cause the cost of supplies, labor, and other expenses to rise faster than we can raise prices. Such changing conditions also could significantly reduce demand in the marketplace for our products. We have no control over any of these changes. We are an early growth stage company. Although our Company was originally founded in 1976, many aspects of our business are still in the early growth stage development, and our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a start-up or growing business enterprise, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. Enova is relatively new in focusing its efforts on electric systems, hybrid systems and fuel cell management systems. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications, and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of an existing business, the development of new products and channels of distribution, and current and future development in several key technical fields, as well as the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate. We operate in a highly regulated business environment and changes in regulation could impose costs on us or make our products less economical. 15 Our products are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, governing, among other things, emissions as well as laws relating to occupational health and safety. Regulatory agencies may impose special requirements for implementation and operation of our products or may significantly impact or even eliminate some of our target markets. We may incur material costs or liabilities in complying with government regulations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are highly dependent on a few key personnel and will need to retain and attract such personnel in a labor competitive market. Our success is largely dependent on the performance of our key management and technical personnel, including Edwin Riddell, our Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer and Don Kang, our Vice President of Engineering, the loss of one or more of whom could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to successfully implement our anticipated growth, we will be dependent on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or hire other necessary personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional highly skilled personnel in an increasingly competitive market. There are minimal barriers to entry in our market. We presently license or own only certain proprietary technology and, therefore, have created little or no barrier to entry for competitors other than the time and significant expense required to assemble and develop similar production and design capabilities. Our competitors may enter into exclusive arrangements with our current or potential suppliers, thereby giving them a competitive edge which we may not be able to overcome, and which may exclude us from similar relationships. We extend credit to our customers, which exposes us to credit risk. Most of our outstanding accounts receivable are from a limited number of large customers. At December 31, 2005, the five highest outstanding accounts receivable balances totaled $2.3 million, representing 99% of our gross accounts receivable, with one customer accounting for $1.8 million, representing 77% of our gross accounts receivable. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively the resulting credit risk and a material portion of our accounts receivable is not paid in a timely manner or becomes uncollectible, our business would be significantly harmed, and we could incur a significant loss associated with any outstanding accounts receivable. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, Singer Lewak Greenbaum & Goldstein LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, notified our management and audit committee of the existence of "significant deficiencies in internal controls," which is an accounting term for internal controls deficiencies that, in the judgment of our independent registered public accounting firm, are significant and which could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information. Singer Lewak Greenbaum & Goldstein LLP concluded that these significant deficiencies constituted a "material weakness" in our internal controls. Auditing literature defines "material weakness" as a particularly serious reportable condition where the internal control does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that misstatements caused by error or fraud may occur in amounts that would be material in relation to the financial statements and the risk that such misstatements would not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. A "material weakness" is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective controls over the inventory pricing, tracking, and the reserve analysis process. This control deficiency resulted in an audit adjustment to our 2005 financial statements and could result in a misstatement to cost of sales that would result in a material misstatement to the annual and interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Furthermore, our management has determined that, as of December 31, 2005, we do not have sufficient segregation of duties in relation to the accounting function. This deficiency could result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management has determined that these deficiencies constitute a material weakness. Because of these material weaknesses, our management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Under the current SEC rules and regulations as we understand them, for the year ending on or after July 15, 2007, our management will be required to assess, and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest as to our assessment regarding, the effectiveness of our internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules. While we intend to address these material weaknesses and have begun efforts to remediate these material weaknesses, including, subsequent to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, the hiring of a Chief Financial Officer and a Controller to oversee the remedial process, there is no assurance that this will be accomplished. These efforts may necessitate significant time and attention of our management and additional resources. If we fail to satisfactorily strengthen the effectiveness of our internal controls, neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm may be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 