ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This annual report on Form 10-K, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains statements indicating expectations about future performance and other forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We usually use words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “future,” “intend,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear throughout the Form 10-K and are statements regarding our current intent, belief, or expectation, primarily with respect to our operations and related industry developments. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the following: our expansion plans, our future operating expenses, our future losses, our future expenditures for 15 Table of Contents research and development and the sufficiency of our cash resources. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our history of operating losses and our expectation of continuing losses may hurt our ability to reach profitability or continue operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our net loss was $7,045,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and our accumulated deficit was $136,708,000 as of December 31, 2009. It is likely that we will continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our ability to continue operations. To achieve profitable operations, we must successfully develop and market our products. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or yearly basis. Because we depend upon sales to a limited number of customers, our revenues will be reduced if we lose a major customer Our revenue is dependent on significant orders from a limited number of customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with major customers establishing product and price standards for future periods. Subsequent events may change the needs of the customer, requiring us to make corresponding adjustments. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, FAW accounted for 56% of our total revenues and our largest four customers comprised 92% of revenues. We believe that revenues from major customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant customers could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. We extend credit to our customers, which exposes us to credit risk Most of our outstanding accounts receivable are from a limited number of large customers. At December 31, 2009, the four highest outstanding accounts receivable balances totaled approximately $1,420,000 which represents 96% of our gross accounts receivable. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively the resulting credit risk and a material portion of our accounts receivable is not paid in a timely manner or becomes uncollectible, our business would be significantly harmed, and we could incur a significant loss associated with any outstanding accounts receivable. 16 Table of Contents Our business is affected by current economic and financial market conditions in the markets we serve Current global economic and financial markets conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the significant and potentially prolonged global economic recession, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are particularly impacted by the global automotive slowdown and the effects on OEM inventory levels, production schedules, support for our products and decreased ability to accurately forecast future product demand. We could also be impacted in our ability to timely collect receivables from our customers and, conversely, reductions in the level and tightening of terms of trade credit available to us. The nature of our industry is dependent on technological advancement and is highly competitive The mobile and stationary power markets, including electric vehicle and hybrid electric vehicles, continue to be subject to rapid technological change. Most of the major domestic and foreign automobile manufacturers: (1) have already produced electric and hybrid vehicles, (2) have developed improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems, and/or (3) are now entering or have entered into production, while continuing to improve technology or incorporate newer technology. Various companies are also developing improved electric storage, propulsion and control systems. In addition, the stationary power market is still in its infancy. A number of established energy companies are developing new technologies. Cost-effective methods to reduce price per kilowatt have yet to be established and the stationary power market is not yet viable. Our current products are designed for use with, and are dependent upon, existing technology. As technologies change, and subject to our limited available resources, we plan to upgrade or adapt our products in order to continue to provide products with the latest technology. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to avoid technological obsolescence, that the market for our products will not ultimately be dominated by technologies other than ours, or that we will be able to adapt to changes in or create “leading — edge” technology. In addition, further proprietary technological development by others could prohibit us from using our own technology. Our industry is affected by political and legislative changes In recent years there has been significant public pressure to enact legislation in the United States and abroad to reduce or eliminate automobile pollution. Although states such as California have enacted such legislation, we cannot assure you that there will not be further legislation enacted changing current requirements or that current legislation or state mandates will not be repealed or amended, or that a different form of zero emission or low emission vehicle will not be invented, developed and produced, and achieve greater market acceptance than electric or hybrid electric vehicles. Extensions, modifications or reductions of current federal and state legislation, mandates and potential tax incentives could also adversely affect our business prospects if implemented. We are subject to increasing emission regulations in a changing legislative climate Because vehicles powered by internal combustion engines cause pollution, there has been significant public pressure in Europe and Asia, and enacted or pending legislation in the United States at the federal level and in certain states, to promote or mandate the use of vehicles with no tailpipe emissions (“zero emission vehicles”) or reduced tailpipe emissions (“low emission vehicles”). Legislation requiring or promoting zero or low emission vehicles is necessary to create a significant market for electric vehicles. The California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) is continuing to modify its regulations regarding its mandatory limits for zero emission and low emission vehicles. Furthermore, several car manufacturers have challenged these mandates in court and have obtained injunctions to delay these mandates. We may be unable to effectively compete with other companies who have significantly greater resources than we have Although we were originally founded in 1976, our business just completed a migration into a production stage, and our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the production stage, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. Many of our competitors, in the automotive, electronic and other industries, are larger, more established companies that have substantially greater financial, personnel, and other resources than we do. These companies may be actively engaged in the research and development of power management and 17 Table of Contents conversion systems. Because of their greater resources, some of our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sales of their products than we can. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, manufacturing capability and sales and marketing. We cannot assure you however that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to do so. In addition, current and potential competitors may establish collaborative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including third parties with whom we have relationships. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may be exposed to product liability or tort claims if our products fail, which could adversely impact our results of operations A malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability or other tort claims. Accidents involving our products could lead to personal injury or physical damage. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on a few key personnel and will need to retain and attract such personnel in a labor competitive market Our success is largely dependent on the performance of our key management and technical personnel, the loss of one or more of whom could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to successfully implement our anticipated growth, we will be dependent on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or hire other necessary personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional highly skilled personnel in an increasingly competitive market. There are minimal barriers to entry in our market We presently license or own only certain proprietary technology, and therefore have created little or no barrier to entry for competitors other than the time and significant expense required to assemble and develop similar production and design capabilities. Our competitors may enter into exclusive arrangements with our current or potential suppliers, thereby giving them a competitive edge which we may not be able to overcome, and which may exclude us from similar relationships. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 