ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric face various risks associated with their businesses. While we have identified below the risks we currently consider material, these risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our businesses that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact our businesses and financial results. As used in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to PPL Energy Supply and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Supply and International Delivery segment discussions, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Delivery segment discussion. Risks Related to Supply Segment (PPL and PPL Energy Supply) We are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale electricity markets. We purchase and sell electricity in wholesale markets under market-based tariffs authorized by the FERC throughout the U.S. and also enter into short-term agreements to market available electricity and capacity from our generation assets with the expectation of profiting from market price fluctuations. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and electricity under these agreements, we could be required to pay damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or electricity and the contract price of any undelivered capacity or electricity. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale electricity markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned generation facility outages, environmental compliance costs, transmission disruptions, and other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement capacity and electricity. Our power agreements typically include provisions requiring us to post collateral for the benefit of our counterparties if the market price of energy varies from the contract prices in excess of certain pre-determined amounts. At December 31, 2009, we had posted $242 million of collateral, in the form of letters of credit, under these contracts. At December 31, 2009, we maintained $4.1 billion of liquidity facilities to provide for potential additional collateral obligations. We currently believe that we have sufficient credit to fulfill our potential collateral obligations under these power contracts. Our obligation to post collateral could exceed the amount of our facilities or our ability to increase our facilities could be limited by financial market or other factors. We also face credit risk that parties with whom we contract will default in their performance, in which case we may have to sell our electricity into a lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at the time of contract. Whenever feasible, we attempt to mitigate these risks by various means, including agreements that require our counterparties to post collateral for our benefit if the market price of energy varies from the contract price in excess of certain pre-determined amounts. However, there can be no assurance that we will avoid counterparty nonperformance, which could adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to other parties, which could in turn subject us to claims for damages. Adverse changes in commodity prices and related costs may decrease our future energy margins, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. Our energy margins, or the amount by which our revenues from the sale of power exceed our costs to supply power, are impacted by changes in market prices for electricity, fuel, fuel transportation, emission allowances, RECs, electricity transmission and related congestion charges and other costs. Unlike most commodities, the limited ability to store electric power requires that it must be consumed at the time of production. As a result, wholesale market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. Among the factors that influence such prices are: · demand for electricity and supplies of electricity available from current or new generation resources; · variable production costs, primarily fuel (and the associated fuel transportation costs) and emission allowance expense for the generation resources used to meet the demand for electricity; · transmission capacity and service into, or out of, markets served; · changes in the regulatory framework for wholesale power markets; · liquidity in the wholesale electricity market, as well as general credit worthiness of key participants in the market; and · weather and economic conditions impacting demand for electricity or the facilities necessary to deliver electricity. See Exhibit 99(a) for more information concerning the market fluctuations in wholesale energy, fuel and emission allowance prices over the past five years. The volatility of these business factors has increased significantly with the current economic downturn. Our risk management policy and programs relating to electricity and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency and counterparties may not work as planned, and we may suffer economic losses despite such programs. We actively manage the market risk inherent in our generation energy marketing activities, as well as our debt, foreign currency and counterparty credit positions. We have implemented procedures to monitor compliance with our risk management policy and programs, including independent validation of transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits, portfolio stress test, sensitivity analyses and daily portfolio reporting of various risk management metrics. Nonetheless, our risk management programs may not work as planned. For example, actual electricity and fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management calculations. Additionally, unforeseen market disruptions could decrease market depth and liquidity, negatively impacting our ability to enter into new transactions. We enter into financial contracts to hedge commodity basis risk, and as a result are exposed to the risk that the correlation between delivery points could change with actual physical delivery. Similarly, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates could change in significant ways that our risk management procedures were not designed to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events result in greater losses or costs than our risk models predict or greater volatility in our earnings and financial position. In addition, our trading, marketing and hedging activities are exposed to counterparty credit risk and market liquidity risk. We have adopted a credit risk management policy and program to evaluate counterparty credit risk. However, if counterparties fail to perform, the risk of which has increased due to the economic downturn, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices. In that event, our financial results are likely to be adversely affected. We do not always hedge against risks associated with electricity and fuel price volatility. We attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual electricity sales obligations by either reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity or purchasing the necessary financial or physical products and services through competitive markets to satisfy our net firm sales contracts. We also routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and electricity purchase and sale commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other electricity-related commodities. However, based on economic and other considerations, we may not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in our energy supply business, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unlike our regulated delivery businesses, our energy supply business is dependent on our ability to operate in a competitive environment and is not assured of any rate of return on capital investments through a predetermined rate structure. Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact our ability to sell electricity and related products and services, as well as the prices that we may charge for such products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to grow our business. We sell our available energy and capacity into the competitive wholesale markets through contracts with various durations. Competition in the wholesale power markets occurs principally on the basis of the price of products and, to a lesser extent, on the basis of reliability and availability. We believe that the commencement of commercial operation of new electric facilities in the regional markets where we own or control generation capacity and the evolution of demand side management resources will continue to increase the competitiveness of the wholesale electricity market in those regions, which could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for electricity. We also face competition in the wholesale markets for electricity capacity and ancillary services. We primarily compete with other electricity suppliers based on our ability to aggregate supplies at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs. We also compete against other energy marketers on the basis of relative financial condition and access to credit sources, and our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. Competitors in the wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL EnergyPlus operate include regulated utilities, industrial companies, non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities. In the past, PUHCA significantly restricted mergers and acquisitions and other investments in the electric utility sector. Entirely new competitors, including financial institutions, have entered the energy markets as a result of the repeal of PUHCA. The repeal of PUHCA also may lead to consolidation in our industry, resulting in competitors with significantly greater financial resources than we have. Disruptions in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our generation facilities. We purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel and other products consumed during the production of electricity (such as lime, limestone and other chemicals), including disruptions as a result of weather, transportation difficulties, global demand and supply dynamics, labor relations, environmental regulations or the financial viability of our fuel suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities, which could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Despite federal and state deregulation initiatives, our supply business is still subject to extensive regulation, which may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or prevent or delay operation of our facilities. Our generation subsidiaries sell electricity into the wholesale market. Generally, our generation subsidiaries and our marketing subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC has authorized us to sell generation from our facilities and power from our marketing subsidiaries at market-based prices. The FERC retains the authority to modify or withdraw our market-based rate authority and to impose "cost of service" rates if it determines that the market is not competitive, that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable rates. Any reduction by the FERC in the rates we may receive or any unfavorable regulation of our business by state regulators could materially adversely affect our results of operations. See "FERC Market-Based Rate Authority" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information regarding recent court decisions that could impact the FERC's market-based rate authority program, and "PJM RPM Litigation" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information regarding the FERC's proceedings that could impact PJM's capacity pricing model. In addition, the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of electricity generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals, licenses and certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all required regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approval or fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, the operation of our assets and our sales of electricity could be prevented or delayed or become subject to additional costs. Our generation facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our ability to manage operational risk with respect to our generation plants is critical to our financial performance. Operation of our power plants at expected capacity levels involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes and fuel interruption. In addition, weather and natural disasters can disrupt our generation plants. Weather conditions also have a direct impact on the river flows required to operate our hydroelectric plants at expected capacity levels. Depending on the timing and duration of both planned and unplanned, complete or partial outages at our power plants (in particular, if such outages are during peak periods or during periods of, or caused by, severe weather), or if our planned uprates at power plants are not completed as scheduled, our revenues from expected energy sales could significantly decrease and our expenses significantly increase, and we could be required to purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our energy sales commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to satisfy them. Many of our generating units are reaching mid-life, and we face the potential for more frequent unplanned outages and the possibility of planned outages of longer duration to accommodate significant investments in major component replacements at these facilities. Changes in technology may negatively impact the value of our power plants. A basic premise of our business is that generating electricity at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at relatively low prices. There are alternate technologies to produce electricity, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar) cells, the development of which has been expanded due to global climate change concerns. Research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in alternate technologies. It is possible that advances will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electricity production to a level that is equal to or below that of certain central station production. Also, as new technologies are developed and become available, the quantity and pattern of electricity usage (the "demand") by customers could decline, with a corresponding decline in revenues derived by generators. These alternative energy sources could result in a decline to the dispatch and capacity factors of our plants. As a result of all of these factors, the value of our generation facilities could be significantly reduced. The load following contracts that PPL EnergyPlus is awarded do not provide for specific levels of load, and actual load significantly below or above our forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins. We generally hedge our load following obligations with energy purchases from third parties, and to a lesser extent with its owned generation. If the actual load is significantly lower than the expected load, we may be required to resell power at a lower price than was purchased to supply the load obligation, resulting in a financial loss. Alternatively, a significant increase in load could adversely affect our energy margins because we are required under the terms of the load following contracts to provide the energy necessary to fulfill increased demand at the contract price, which could be lower than the cost to procure additional energy on the open market. Therefore, any significant decrease or increase in load compared to our forecasts, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our earnings may be affected by whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into or renew long-term power sale, fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements to mitigate market price and supply risk. As a result of the PLR contracts and certain other agreements, a substantial portion of our generation production and capacity value was committed through 2009 under power sales agreements of various terms that included fixed prices for electric power. With the expiration of these agreements we have been actively selling our generation at fixed prices in the wholesale energy market and participating in load-following or full requirements auctions with utility companies in the PJM, New England Power Pool and Midwest ISO regions. In connection with these activities, we have entered into longer-term fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements that include fixed prices for a significant portion of our forecasted needs. Whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into such agreements or renew existing agreements in the future, prevailing market conditions will affect our financial performance. For example, in the absence of long-term power sales agreements, we would sell the energy, capacity and other products from our facilities in the competitive wholesale power markets under contracts of shorter duration at then-current market prices. Current forward prices for electricity are lower than the prices under some of our existing power sales agreements. In addition, if we do not secure or maintain favorable fuel purchase and transportation agreements for our power generation facilities, our fuel costs (and associated fuel transportation costs) could exceed the revenues we derive from our energy sales. Given the volatility and potential for material differences between actual electricity prices and fuel and other costs, if we do not secure or maintain long-term electricity sales and fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements, our margins will be subject to increased volatility and, depending on future electricity and fuel costs (and associated fuel transportation costs), our financial results may be materially adversely affected. If market deregulation is reversed or discontinued, our business prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In some markets, state legislators, government agencies and other interested parties have made proposals to change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas of these markets that have previously been deregulated or permit electricity delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities. The ISOs that oversee the transmission systems in certain wholesale electricity markets have from time to time been authorized to impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may reduce profits that our wholesale power marketing and trading business would have realized under competitive market conditions absent such limitations and mechanisms. Although we generally expect electricity markets to continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our industry may be made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in states in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. We rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver our wholesale electricity. If transmission is disrupted, or not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power may be hindered. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms. The FERC has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that transmission capacity will not be available in the amounts we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities in specific markets or whether ISOs in applicable markets will efficiently operate transmission networks and provide related services. Our costs to comply with existing and new environmental laws are expected to continue to be significant, and we plan to incur significant capital expenditures for pollution control improvements that, if delayed, would adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection. To comply with existing and future environmental requirements and as a result of voluntary pollution control measures we may take, we have spent and expect to spend substantial amounts in the future on environmental control and compliance. In order to comply with existing and recently enacted federal and state environmental laws and regulations primarily governing air emissions from coal-fired plants, in 2005 PPL began a program to install scrubbers and other pollution control equipment (primarily aimed at sulfur dioxide, particulate and nitrogen oxides with co-benefits for mercury emissions reduction). The cost to install this equipment was approximately $1.6 billion, of which $19 million remains to be spent. The remaining unspent balance is included in the 2010 through 2012 capital budget. The scrubbers at our Montour and Brunner Island plants are now in service. Many states and environmental groups have challenged certain federal laws and regulations relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be adopted that impose more stringent restrictions than are currently in effect, which could require us to significantly increase capital expenditures for pollution control equipment. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary for our planned capital projects or which are otherwise necessary to our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. Furthermore, at some of our older generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary equipment, which could cause us to close those units. Additionally, the expanding national and international focus on climate change and the related desire to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions has lead to numerous federal legislative and regulatory proposals, and several states already have passed legislation capping carbon dioxide emissions. The continuation of this trend may heighten or make more likely the risks identified above. For more information regarding environmental matters, including existing and proposed federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations to which we are subject, see "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. We are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risk that our Susquehanna nuclear plant could become subject to revised security or safety requirements that would increase our capital and operating expenditures, and uncertainties associated with decommissioning our plant at the end of its licensed life. Nuclear generation accounted for about 32% of our 2009 generation output. The risks of nuclear generation generally include: · the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; · limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses and liabilities that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and · uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. The licenses for our two nuclear units expire in 2042 and 2044. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the ARO related to the decommissioning. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing requirements, including security, safety and employee-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, revised security or safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital or operating expenditures at our Susquehanna nuclear plant. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our Susquehanna plant, if an incident did occur, any resulting operational loss, damages and injuries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Risks Related to International Delivery Segment (PPL and PPL Energy Supply) Our U.K. delivery business is subject to risks with respect to rate regulation and operational performance. Our U.K. delivery business is rate regulated and operates under an incentive-based regulatory framework. In addition, its ability to manage operational risk is critical to its financial performance. Disruption to the distribution network could reduce profitability both directly through the higher costs for network restoration and also through the system of penalties and rewards that Ofgem has in place relating to customer service levels. In December 2009, Ofgem completed its rate review for the five-year period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015, thus reducing regulatory rate risk in the International Delivery Segment until the next rate review which will be effective April 1, 2015. The results of the rate review are further discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations." The regulated income of the International Delivery Segment and also the RAB are to some extent linked to movements in the Retail Price Index (RPI). Reductions in the RPI would adversely impact revenues and the debt/RAB ratio. Our U.K. delivery business exposes us to risks related to U.K. laws and regulations, taxes, economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and political conditions and policies of the U.K. government. These risks may reduce the results of operations from our U.K. delivery business. The acquisition, financing, development and operation of projects in the U.K. entail significant financial risks including: · changes in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including tax laws and regulations; · changes in government policies, personnel or approval requirements; · changes in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.; · regulatory reviews of tariffs for distribution companies; · severe weather and natural disaster impacts on the electric sector and our assets; · changes in labor relations; · limitations on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or distributions to foreign investors; · limitations on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders and lack of local capital or loans; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and in converting U.K. revenues to U.S. dollars, which can increase our expenses and/or impair our ability to meet such expenses, and difficulty moving funds out of the country in which the funds were earned; and · compliance with U.S. foreign corrupt practices laws. Risks Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment (PPL and PPL Electric) Regulators may not approve the rates we request. Our Pennsylvania delivery business is rate-regulated. While such regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs, including energy supply costs for customers, and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the rates that we may charge our delivery customers are subject to authorization of the applicable regulatory authorities. Our Pennsylvania delivery business is subject to substantial capital expenditure requirements over the next several years, which will require rate increase requests to the regulators. There is no guarantee that the rates authorized by regulators will match our actual costs or provide a particular return on invested capital at any given time. Our transmission and distribution facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our ability to manage operational risk with respect to our transmission and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our delivery business. Our delivery business also faces several risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and labor disputes and other factors. Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. We may be subject to higher transmission costs and other risks as a result of PJM's regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) process. PJM and the FERC have the authority to require upgrades or expansion of the regional transmission grid, which can result in substantial expenditures for transmission owners. As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, we expect to make substantial expenditures to construct the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line that PJM has determined is necessary for the reliability of the regional transmission grid. Although the FERC has granted our request for incentive rate treatment of such facilities, we cannot predict the date when these facilities will be in service or whether delays may occur due to public opposition or other factors. Delays could result in significant cost increases for these facilities and decreased reliability of the regional transmission grid. As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate financial or operational impact of this project or other RTEP projects on PPL Electric. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. Under the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are now subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and enforced by the FERC. Compliance with reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures, and violations of these standards could result in substantial penalties. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to Pennsylvania Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs. Act 129 became effective in October 2008. This law created requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the use of smart metering technology, imposed new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provided remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. Utilities not meeting the requirements of Act 129 are subject to significant penalties that cannot be recovered in rates. The law also requires electric utilities to meet specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand by specified dates (2011 and 2013). Although we expect to meet these requirements, numerous factors outside of our control could prevent compliance with these requirements and result in penalties to us. See "Regulatory Issues - Energy Policy Act of 2005 - Reliability Standards" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Rate deregulation remains subject to political risks. Although prior initiatives have not resulted in the enactment of legislation, the possibility remains that certain Pennsylvania legislators could introduce legislation to extend generation rate caps or otherwise limit cost recovery through rates for Pennsylvania utilities after the end of applicable transition periods, which in PPL Electric's case was December 31, 2009. If such legislation were introduced and ultimately enacted, PPL Electric could face severe financial consequences including operating losses and significant cash flow shortfalls. In addition, continuing uncertainty regarding PPL Electric's ability to recover its market supply and other costs of operating its business could adversely affect its credit quality, financing costs and availability of credit facilities necessary to operate its business. Other Risks Related to All Segments (PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric) We will selectively pursue growth of generation and transmission and distribution capacity, which involves a number of uncertainties and may not achieve the desired financial results. We will pursue expansion of our generation and transmission and distribution capacity over the next several years through power uprates at certain of our existing power plants, the potential construction of new power plants, the potential acquisition of existing plants, the potential construction or acquisition of transmission and distribution projects and capital investments to upgrade transmission and distribution infrastructure. We will rigorously scrutinize opportunities to expand our generating capability and may determine not to proceed with any expansion. These types of projects involve numerous risks. Any planned power uprates could result in cost overruns, reduced plant efficiency and higher operating and other costs. With respect to the construction of new plants, the acquisition of existing plants, or the construction or acquisition of transmission and distribution projects, we may be required to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. The success of both a new or acquired project would likely be contingent, among other things, upon the negotiation of satisfactory operating contracts, obtaining acceptable financing, maintaining acceptable credit ratings, as well as receipt of required and appropriate governmental approvals. If we were unable to complete construction or expansion of a facility, we would generally be unable to recover our investment in the project. Furthermore, we might be unable to run any new or acquired plants as efficiently as projected, which could result in higher than projected operating and other costs and reduced earnings. The economic and financial markets in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, conditions in the financial markets became disruptive to the processes of managing credit risk, responding to liquidity needs, measuring at fair value derivatives and other financial instruments and managing market risk. The contraction of liquidity in the wholesale energy markets and accompanying significant decline in wholesale energy prices significantly impacted our earnings during the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. The breadth and depth of these negative economic conditions had a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. and international business environment, including our businesses, and may continue to do so. As a result of the economic downturn, demand for energy commodities has declined significantly. This reduced demand will continue to impact the key domestic wholesale energy markets we serve (such as PJM) and our Pennsylvania delivery business, especially industrial customer demand. The combination of lower demand for power and natural gas and other fuels has put downward price pressure on the wholesale energy market in general, further impacting our energy marketing results. In general, current economic and commodity market conditions will continue to challenge the predictability regarding our unhedged future energy margins, liquidity and overall financial condition. Our businesses are heavily dependent on credit and capital, among other things, for providing collateral to support hedging in our energy marketing business. Global bank credit capacity was reduced and the cost of renewing or establishing new credit facilities increased significantly in 2008, primarily as a result of general credit concerns nationwide, thereby introducing uncertainties as to our businesses' ability to enter into long-term energy commitments or reliably estimate the longer-term cost and availability of credit. Although bank credit conditions have improved since mid-2009, and we currently expect to have adequate access to needed credit and capital based on current conditions, deterioration in the financial markets could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. The current condition of the economic and financial markets in which we operate is expected to continue to impact numerous other aspects of our business operations discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factor section. Our operating results could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of severe weather conditions. Our businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles. For example, in some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in cold winter months. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis if weather conditions such as heat waves, extreme cold weather or severe storms occur. The patterns of these fluctuations may change depending on the type and location of our facilities and the terms of our contracts to sell electricity. We cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently being conducted with respect to our current and past business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues" and in "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case. We may need significant additional financing to pursue growth opportunities. We continually review potential acquisitions and development projects and may enter into significant acquisition agreements or development commitments in the future. An acquisition agreement or development commitment may require access to substantial capital from outside sources on acceptable terms. We also may need external financing to fund capital expenditures, including capital expenditures necessary to comply with environmental or other regulatory requirements. Our ability to arrange financing and our cost of capital are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic conditions, credit availability and our financial performance. The inability to obtain sufficient financing on terms that are acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and fund capital expenditures. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new debt. Our current credit ratings by Moody's, Fitch and S&P, including a January 2009 review by S&P that resulted in a negative outlook for us, are listed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Ratings." While we do not expect these ratings to limit our ability to fund short-term liquidity needs or access new long-term debt, any ratings downgrade could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect our ability to fund short-term liquidity needs and access new long-term debt. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers" for additional information on the impact of a downgrade in our credit rating. Significant increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including health care and pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and liquidity. We continually focus on limiting and reducing where possible our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of materials and labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements, especially in respect of environmental protection, the need for higher cost expertise in the workforce or other factors. In addition, pursuant to collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current employees and retirees. We provide a similar level of benefits to our management employees. These benefits give rise to significant expenses. Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs and cash contribution requirements to fund these benefits could increase significantly. There is a risk that we may be required to record impairment charges in the future for certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our earnings. Under GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. Although no goodwill impairments were recorded based on our annual review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we are unable to predict whether future impairment charges may be necessary. We also review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. During 2009, PPL recorded impairment charges related to certain sulfur dioxide emission allowances and the Long Island generation business that is being sold. During 2008, PPL recorded impairment charges related to a cancelled hydroelectric expansion project, certain emission allowances and its natural gas distribution and propane businesses that were sold in 2008. During 2007, PPL impaired certain transmission rights, certain domestic telecommunications assets, certain assets of the natural gas distribution and propane businesses, and the net assets of our Bolivian businesses prior to their sale in 2007. See Notes 8, 9 and 17 to the Financial Statements for additional information on these charges. We are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other losses on sales of other assets or businesses, may occur in future years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS PPL Corporation, PPL Energy Supply, LLC and PPL Electric Utilities Corporation None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Supply Segment PPL Energy Supply's system capacity (winter rating) at December 31, 2009, was: Plant Total MW Capacity (a) % Ownership PPL Energy Supply's Ownership or Lease Interest in MW Primary Fuel Pennsylvania Susquehanna 2,451 90.00 2,206 Nuclear Montour 1,530 100.00 1,530 Coal Brunner Island 1,476 100.00 1,476 (b) Coal Martins Creek 1,672 100.00 1,672 Natural Gas/Oil Keystone 1,718 12.34 212 Coal Conemaugh 1,718 16.25 279 Coal Ironwood (c) 759 100.00 759 Natural Gas Lower Mt. Bethel 624 100.00 624 Natural Gas Combustion turbines 465 100.00 465 Natural Gas/Oil Safe Harbor Water Power Corp. 421 33.33 140 Hydro Hydroelectric 172 100.00 172 Hydro Other (c) (d) 48 100.00 48 Various 13,054 9,583 Montana Colstrip Units 1 & 2 614 50.00 307 Coal Colstrip Unit 3 740 30.00 222 Coal Corette 153 100.00 153 Coal Hydroelectric 604 100.00 604 Hydro 2,111 1,286 Illinois University Park 585 100.00 585 Natural Gas Connecticut Wallingford 244 100.00 244 Natural Gas New York Shoreham and Edgewood 159 100.00 (e) Natural Gas/Oil Maine Hydroelectric 12 100.00 12 Hydro New Jersey Other 11 100.00 5 (f) Landfill Gas/Solar Vermont Moretown 3 100.00 3 Landfill Gas New Hampshire Colebrook 1 100.00 1 Landfill Gas Total System Capacity 16,180 11,719 (a) The capacity of generation units is based on a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical conditions of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changed circumstances. (b) PPL Energy Supply expects a reduction of up to 30 MW in net generation capability due to the estimated increase in station service usage during the scrubber operation. (c) Facilities not owned by PPL Energy Supply, but there is a tolling agreement or power purchase agreement in place. (d) Includes renewable energy facilities owned by a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary. (e) Facilities owned by PPL Energy Supply, but there are tolling agreements in place for 100% of the output. In May 2009, PPL Generation signed a definitive agreement to sell the Long Island generation business. The tolling agreements related to these plants will be transferred to the new owner upon completion of the sale. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the anticipated sale. (f) Includes renewable energy facilities owned by a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary for which there are power purchase agreements in place. PPL Energy Supply continuously reexamines development projects based on market conditions and other factors to determine whether to proceed with the projects, sell, cancel or expand them, execute tolling agreements or pursue other options. At December 31, 2009, PPL Generation planned to implement the following incremental capacity increases. Project Primary Fuel Total MW Capacity (a) PPL Energy Supply Ownership or Lease Interest in MW Expected In-Service Date (b) Pennsylvania Holtwood (c) Hydro 125 125 (100%) 2013 Susquehanna (d) Nuclear 59 53 (90%) 2010 - 2011 Martins Creek (e) Natural Gas/Oil 30 30 (100%) 2011 Chrin Landfill Landfill Gas 3 3 (100%) 2011 Montana Great Falls (f) Hydro 28 28 (100%) 2012 Total 245 239 (a) The capacity of generation units is based on a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changed circumstances. (b) The expected in-service dates are subject to receipt of required approvals, permits and other contingencies. (c) This project includes installation of two additional large turbine-generators. (d) This project involves the extended upgrade of Units 1 and 2 and is being implemented in two uprates per unit, the first increase being an average of 50 MW per unit. The first uprate for Unit 1 occurred in 2008. The second uprate is planned to occur in 2010. The first uprate for Unit 2 occurred in 2009. The second uprate is planned to occur in 2011. (e) This project involves the replacement of LP rotors and stationary blading for Unit 4. (f) This project involves reconstruction of a powerhouse. Pennsylvania Delivery Segment For a description of PPL Electric's service territory, see "Item 1. Business - Background." At December 31, 2009, PPL Electric had electric transmission and distribution lines in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises and rights-of-way secured from property owners. PPL Electric's system included 371 substations with a total capacity of 30 million kVA, 33,053 circuit miles of overhead lines and 7,310 cable miles of underground conductors. All of PPL Electric's facilities are located in Pennsylvania. Substantially all of PPL Electric's distribution properties and certain transmission properties are subject to the lien of PPL Electric's 2001 Senior Secured Bond Indenture. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for information on the construction of a new 500-kilovolt transmission line. International Delivery Segment For a description of WPD's service territory, see "Item 1. Business - Background." At December 31, 2009, WPD had electric distribution lines in public streets and highways pursuant to legislation and rights-of-way secured from property owners. In 2009, electricity distributed totaled 26,358 GWh based on operating revenues recorded by WPD. WPD's distribution system in the U.K. includes 651 substations with a total capacity of 25 million kVA, 28,877 miles of overhead lines and 23,896 cable miles of underground conductors. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information regarding legal, regulatory and environmental proceedings and matters. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of 2009. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS Officers of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric are elected annually by their Boards of Directors (or Board of Managers for PPL Energy Supply) to serve at the pleasure of the respective Boards. There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. There have been no events under any bankruptcy act, no criminal proceedings and no judgments or injunctions material to the evaluation of the ability and integrity of any executive officer during the past five years. Listed below are the executive officers at December 31, 2009. PPL Corporation Name Age Positions Held During the Past Five Years Dates James H. Miller 61 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer October 2006 - present President June 2006 - September 2006 President and Chief Operating Officer August 2005 - June 2006 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer September 2004 - July 2005 William H. Spence 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer June 2006 - present President-PPL Generation June 2008 - present Senior Vice President-Pepco Holdings, Inc. August 2002 - June 2006 Senior Vice President-Conectiv Holdings September 2000 - June 2006 Paul A. Farr 42 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer April 2007 - present Senior Vice President-Financial January 2006 - March 2007 Senior Vice President-Financial and Controller August 2005 - January 2006 Vice President and Controller August 2004 - July 2005 Robert J. Grey 59 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary March 1996 - present Robert D. Gabbard (a) 50 President-PPL EnergyPlus June 2008 - present Senior Vice President-Trading-PPL EnergyPlus June 2008 - June 2008 Senior Vice President Merchant Trading Operations-Conectiv Energy June 2005 - May 2008 Vice President and General Manager Power Trading-Conectiv Energy April 1998 - June 2005 Rick L. Klingensmith (a) 49 President-PPL Global August 2004 - present David G. DeCampli (a) 52 President-PPL Electric April 2007 - present Senior Vice President-Transmission and Distribution Engineering and Operations-PPL Electric December 2006 - April 2007 Vice President-Asset Investment Strategy and Development-Exelon Energy Delivery-Exelon Corporation April 2004 - December 2006 James E. Abel 58 Vice President-Finance and Treasurer June 1999 - present J. Matt Simmons, Jr. 44 Vice President and Controller January 2006 - present Vice President-Finance and Controller-Duke Energy Americas October 2003 - January 2006 (a) Designated an executive officer of PPL by virtue of their respective positions at a PPL subsidiary. PPL Electric Utilities Corporation Name Age Positions Held During the Past Five Years Dates David G. DeCampli 52 President April 2007 - present Senior Vice President-Transmission and Distribution Engineering and Operations December 2006 - April 2007 Vice President-Asset Investment Strategy and Development-Exelon Energy Delivery-Exelon Corporation April 2004 - December 2006 Gregory N. Dudkin (a) 52 Senior Vice President-Operations June 2009 - present Independent Consultant February 2009 - June 2009 Senior Vice President of Technical Operations and Fulfillment-Comcast Corporation July 2006 - January 2009 Regional Senior Vice President-Comcast Corporation January 2005 - June 2006 James E. Abel 58 Treasurer July 2000 - present J. Matt Simmons, Jr. 44 Vice President and Controller January 2006 - present Vice President-Finance and Controller-Duke Energy Americas October 2003 - January 2006 (a) On June 29, 2009, Gregory N. Dudkin was elected Senior Vice President-Operations of PPL Electric. PPL Energy Supply, LLC Item 4 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES PPL Corporation Additional information for this item is set forth in the sections entitled "Quarterly Financial, Common Stock Price and Dividend Data," "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" and "Shareowner and Investor Information" of this report. At January 29, 2010, there were 72,013 common stock shareowners of record. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities during the Fourth Quarter of 2009: (a) (b) (c) (d) Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) October 1 to October 31, 2009 $57,495 November 1 to November 30, 2009 14,124 $29.44 $57,495 December 1 to December 31, 2009 $57,495 Total 14,124 $29.44 $57,495 (1) Represents shares of common stock withheld by PPL at the request of its executive officers to pay taxes upon the vesting of the officers' restricted stock awards, as permitted under the terms of PPL's ICP and ICPKE. (2) In June 2007, PPL announced a program to repurchase from time to time up to $750 million of its common stock in open market purchases, pre-arranged trading plans or privately negotiated transactions. PPL Energy Supply, LLC There is no established public trading market for PPL Energy Supply's membership interests. PPL Energy Funding, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of PPL, owns all of PPL Energy Supply's outstanding membership interests. Distributions on the membership interests will be paid as determined by PPL Energy Supply's Board of Managers. PPL Energy Supply made cash distributions to PPL Energy Funding of $943 million in 2009 and $750 million in 2008. PPL Electric Utilities Corporation There is no established public trading market for PPL Electric's common stock, as PPL owns 100% of the outstanding common shares. Dividends paid to PPL on those common shares are determined by PPL Electric's Board of Directors. PPL Electric paid common stock dividends to PPL of $274 million in 2009 and $98 million in 2008. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA PPL Energy Supply, LLC Item 6 is omitted as PPL Energy Supply meets the conditions set forth in General Instructions (I)(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA PPL Corporation (a)(b) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Income Items - millions Operating revenues $ 7,556 $ 8,007 $ 6,462 $ 6,096 $ 5,498 Operating income 961 1,793 1,659 1,485 1,242 Income from continuing operations after income taxes attributable to PPL 447 907 1,001 825 666 Net income attributable to PPL 407 930 1,288 865 669 Balance Sheet Items - millions (c) Total assets 22,165 21,405 19,972 19,747 17,926 Short-term debt 639 679 92 42 214 Long-term debt (d) 7,143 7,838 7,568 7,746 7,081 Long-term debt with affiliate trusts 89 89 Noncontrolling interests 319 319 320 361 107 Common equity 5,496 5,077 5,556 5,122 4,418 Total capitalization (d) 13,597 13,913 13,536 13,360 11,909 Capital lease obligations 10 11 Financial Ratios Return on average common equity - % 7.48 16.88 24.47 17.81 15.44 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges - total enterprise basis (e) 2.0 3.2 2.9 2.8 2.3 Common Stock Data Number of shares outstanding - Basic - thousands Year-end 377,183 374,581 373,271 385,039 380,145 Average 376,082 373,626 380,563 380,754 379,132 Income from continuing operations after income taxes available to PPL common shareowners - Basic EPS $ 1.18 $ 2.42 $ 2.62 $ 2.16 $ 1.75 Income from continuing operations after income taxes available to PPL common shareowners - Diluted EPS $ 1.18 $ 2.41 $ 2.60 $ 2.13 $ 1.74 Net income available to PPL common shareowners - Basic EPS $ 1.08 $ 2.48 $ 3.37 $ 2.26 $ 1.76 Net income available to PPL common shareowners - Diluted EPS $ 1.08 $ 2.47 $ 3.34 $ 2.24 $ 1.74 Dividends declared per share of common stock $ 1.38 $ 1.34 $ 1.22 $ 1.10 $ 0.96 Book value per share (c) $ 14.57 $ 13.55 $ 14.88 $ 13.30 $ 11.62 Market price per share (c) $ 32.31 $ 30.69 $ 52.09 $ 35.84 $ 29.40 Dividend payout ratio - % (f) 128 54 37 49 55 Dividend yield - % (g) 4.27 4.37 2.34 3.07 3.27 Price earnings ratio (f) (g) 29.92 12.43 15.60 16.00 16.90 Sales Data - millions of kWh Domestic - Electric energy supplied - retail 38,912 40,374 40,074 38,810 39,413 Domestic - Electric energy supplied - wholesale (h) 38,988 42,712 33,515 30,427 31,530 Domestic - Electric energy delivered 36,717 38,058 37,950 36,683 37,358 International - Electric energy delivered (i) 26,358 27,724 31,652 33,352 33,146 (a) The earnings each year were affected by several items that management considers special. See "Results of Operations - Segment Results" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of special items in 2009, 2008 and 2007. (b) See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of uncertainties that could affect PPL's future financial condition. (c) As of each respective year-end. (d) The year 2007 excludes amounts related to PPL's natural gas distribution and propane businesses that had been classified as held for sale at December 31, 2007. (e) Computed using earnings and fixed charges of PPL and its subsidiaries. Fixed charges consist of interest on short- and long-term debt, amortization of debt discount, expense and premium - net, other interest charges, the estimated interest component of operating rentals and preferred securities distributions of subsidiaries. See Exhibit 12(a) for additional information. (f) Based on diluted EPS. (g) Based on year-end market prices. (h) All years include kWh associated with the Long Island generation business and the majority of PPL Maine's hydroelectric generation business that have been classified as Discontinued Operations. (i) Years 2007 and earlier include the deliveries associated with the Latin American businesses, until the dates of their sales in 2007. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA PPL Electric Utilities Corporation (a)(b) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Income Items - millions Operating revenues $ 3,292 $ 3,401 $ 3,410 $ 3,259 $ 3,163 Operating income 329 375 350 418 377 Net income 142 176 163 194 147 Income available to PPL 124 158 145 180 145 Balance Sheet Items - millions (c) Total assets 5,092 5,416 4,986 5,315 5,537 Short-term debt 95 41 42 42 Long-term debt 1,472 1,769 1,674 1,978 2,411 Shareowners' equity 1,896 1,646 1,586 1,559 1,375 Total capital provided by investors 3,368 3,510 3,301 3,579 3,828 Financial Ratios Return on average common equity - % 9.08 12.00 11.35 14.33 11.20 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (d) 2.8 3.4 2.7 2.9 2.1 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends (e) 2.3 2.7 2.3 2.5 2.1 Sales Data Customers (thousands) (c) 1,398 1,394 1,387 1,377 1,365 Electric energy delivered - millions of kWh Residential 14,256 14,419 14,411 13,714 14,218 Commercial 13,837 13,942 13,801 13,174 13,196 Industrial 8,435 9,508 9,547 9,638 9,777 Other 189 189 191 157 167 Total electric energy delivered 36,717 38,058 37,950 36,683 37,358 Electric energy supplied as a PLR - millions of kWh 36,695 38,043 37,919 36,577 36,917 (a) Earnings for the years 2009, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were affected by several items that management considers special. See "Results of Operations - Earnings" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of special items in 2009 and 2007. (b) See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of uncertainties that could affect PPL Electric's future financial condition. (c) As of each respective year-end. (d) Computed using earnings and fixed charges of PPL Electric and its subsidiaries. Fixed charges consist of interest on short- and long-term debt, other interest charges, amortization of debt discount, expense and premium - net, and the estimated interest component of operating rentals. See Exhibit 12(c) for additional information. (e) Computed using earnings, fixed charges and preferred stock dividend requirements of PPL Electric and its subsidiaries. Fixed charges consist of interest on short- and long-term debt, other interest charges, amortization of debt discount, expense and premium - net, and the estimated interest component of operating rentals. See Exhibit 12(c) for additional information. PPL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview PPL is an energy and utility holding company with headquarters in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Refer to "Item 1. Business - Background" for descriptions of its reportable segments, which are Supply, International Delivery and Pennsylvania Delivery. Through its subsidiaries, PPL is primarily engaged in the generation and marketing of electricity in two key markets - the northeastern and western U.S. - and in the delivery of electricity in Pennsylvania and the U.K. PPL's overall strategy is to achieve disciplined growth in energy supply margins while limiting volatility in both cash flows and earnings and to achieve stable, long-term growth in its regulated electricity delivery businesses through efficient operations and strong customer and regulatory relations. More specifically, PPL's strategy for its electricity generation and marketing business is to match energy supply with load, or customer demand, under contracts of varying lengths with creditworthy counterparties to capture profits while effectively managing exposure to energy and fuel price volatility, counterparty credit risk and operational risk. PPL's strategy for its electricity delivery businesses is to own and operate these businesses at the most efficient cost while maintaining high quality customer service and reliability. PPL faces several risks in its supply business, principally electricity and capacity wholesale price risk, fuel supply and price risk, electricity and fuel basis risk, power plant performance, evolving regulatory frameworks and counterparty credit risk. PPL attempts to manage these risks through various means. For instance, PPL operates a portfolio of generation assets that is diversified as to geography, fuel source, cost structure and operating characteristics. PPL expects to expand its generation capacity over the next several years through power uprates at certain of its existing power plants, and is continually evaluating the potential construction of new plants and the potential acquisition of existing plants or businesses. PPL is and will continue to remain focused on the operating efficiency and availability of its existing and any newly constructed or acquired power plants. In addition, PPL has executed and continues to pursue contracts of varying lengths for energy sales and fuel supply, while using other means to mitigate risks associated with adverse changes in the difference, or margin, between the cost to produce electricity and the price at which PPL sells it. PPL's future profitability will be affected by prevailing market conditions and whether PPL decides to, or is able to, continue to enter into long-term or intermediate-term power sales and fuel purchase agreements or renew its existing agreements. Currently, PPL's commitments for energy sales are satisfied through its own generation assets and supply purchased from third parties. PPL markets and trades around its physical portfolio of generating assets through integrated generation, marketing and trading functions. PPL has adopted financial and operational risk management programs that, among other things, are designed to monitor and manage its exposure to earnings and cash flow volatility related to changes in energy and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, counterparty credit quality and the operating performance of its generating units. The principal challenge that PPL faces in its electricity delivery businesses is to maintain high quality customer service and reliability in a cost-effective manner. PPL's electricity delivery businesses are rate-regulated. Accordingly, these businesses are subject to regulatory risk with respect to costs that may not be recovered and investment returns that may not be collected through customer rates. See "Customer Choice - End of Transition Period" below for information on additional risks PPL's domestic electricity business may face. PPL faces additional financial risks in conducting U.K. operations, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effect these rates have on the conversion of U.K. earnings and cash flows to U.S. dollars. PPL attempts to manage these financial risks through its risk management programs. In order to manage financing costs and access to credit markets, a key objective for PPL's business as a whole is to maintain a strong credit profile. PPL continually focuses on maintaining an appropriate capital structure and liquidity position. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for more information concerning these and other material risks PPL faces in its businesses. In May 2009, PPL Generation signed a definitive agreement to sell its Long Island generation business and related tolling agreements, and expects the sale to close on or about February 26, 2010. In November 2009, PPL Maine completed the sale of the majority of its hydroelectric generation business. These businesses are included in the Supply segment. In 2008, PPL sold its natural gas distribution and propane businesses, which were included in the Pennsylvania Delivery segment. In 2007, PPL sold its regulated electricity delivery businesses in Latin America, which were included in the International Delivery segment. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The purpose of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" is to provide information concerning PPL's performance in implementing the strategies and managing the risks and challenges mentioned above. Specifically: · "Results of Operations" provides an overview of PPL's operating results in 2009, 2008 and 2007, including a review of earnings, with details of results by reportable segment. It also provides a brief outlook for 2010. · "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" provides an analysis of PPL's liquidity position and credit profile, including its sources of cash (including bank credit facilities and sources of operating cash flow) and uses of cash (including contractual obligations and capital expenditure requirements) and the key risks and uncertainties that impact PPL's past and future liquidity position and financial condition. This subsection also includes a listing and discussion of PPL's current credit ratings. · "Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" provides an explanation of PPL's risk management programs relating to market risk and credit risk. · "Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations and financial condition of PPL and that require its management to make significant estimates, assumptions and other judgments. The information provided in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with PPL's Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes. Terms and abbreviations are explained in the glossary. Dollars are in millions unless otherwise noted. Customer Choice – End of Transition Period In 1996, the Customer Choice Act was enacted to restructure Pennsylvania's electric utility industry in order to create retail access to a competitive market for generation of electricity. The Customer Choice Act required each Pennsylvania electric utility, including PPL Electric, to file a restructuring plan to "unbundle" its rates into separate generation, transmission and distribution components and to permit its customers to directly access alternate suppliers of electricity. Under the Customer Choice Act, PPL Electric was required to act as a PLR. As part of a settlement approved by the PUC and in connection with the restructuring plan PPL Electric filed under the Customer Choice Act, PPL Electric agreed to provide electricity as a PLR at predetermined "capped" rates through 2009. In addition, the PUC authorized recovery of approximately $2.97 billion of competitive transition or "stranded" costs (generation-related costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market) from customers during an 11-year transition period. For PPL Electric, this transition period ended on December 31, 2009. As a result of the PUC settlement order and the PLR obligation, PPL Electric, through 2009, generally bore the risk that it would not be able to obtain adequate energy supply at the "capped" rates it could charge to its customers who did not select an alternate electricity supplier. To mitigate this risk, PPL Electric entered into full requirements energy supply agreements with PPL EnergyPlus. Under these agreements, through 2009, PPL EnergyPlus supplied PPL Electric's entire PLR load at predetermined prices equal to the capped generation rates that PPL Electric was authorized to charge its customers. Related to PPL Electric's transition period, the following has occurred or will occur: · In August 1999, CTC of $2.4 billion were converted to intangible transition costs when they were securitized by the issuance of transition bonds. The intangible transition costs were amortized over the life of the transition bonds, through December 2008, in accordance with an amortization schedule filed with the PUC. These transition bonds matured in tranches, with the final tranche being repaid in December 2008. · During the transition period, PPL Electric was authorized by the PUC to bill its customers $130 million for a portion of the costs associated with decommissioning of the Susquehanna nuclear plant. Under the power supply agreements between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, these revenues were passed on to PPL EnergyPlus. Similarly, these revenues were passed on to PPL Susquehanna under a power supply agreement between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Susquehanna and invested in the NDT funds. Effective January 1, 2010, these ratepayer billings have ceased. · In December 2009, PPL Electric filed with the PUC a final reconciliation of CTC and ITC recoveries during the transition period. At December 31, 2009, PPL Electric has recorded a net regulatory liability of $33 million related to these recoveries. The net overcollection will be reflected in customer rates in 2010. · At December 31, 2009, PPL Electric's long-term power purchase agreements with PPL EnergyPlus (effective since 2000 and 2002) expired. · To mitigate 2010 rate increases, PPL Electric implemented two programs in 2008 and 2009 that allowed customers to make prepayments toward their 2010 and 2011 electric bills or to defer any 2010 electric bill increases exceeding 25%. Any deferred amounts are to be repaid by 2012. At December 31, 2009, PPL Electric has recorded a liability of $36 million for these programs. · Effective January 1, 2010, PPL Electric's rates for generation supply as a PLR are no longer capped and the cost of electric generation is based on a competitive solicitation process. During 2007 through 2009, PPL Electric procured through PUC-approved solicitation procedures, the electric generation supply it will need in 2010 for customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. The prices in these contracts will result in an average residential customer paying approximately 30% higher rates, as compared to the previously-capped rates on delivered electricity. PPL Electric is currently procuring the PLR supply it will need for the January 2011 through May 2013 period. The results of all procurements continue to require the approval of the PUC. · For those customers who choose to procure generation supply from other providers, PPL Electric will provide services for these alternative generation suppliers to bill usage charges, among other duties. As required by a PUC-approved plan, PPL Electric will be purchasing certain receivables from alternative suppliers at a discount. In October 2008, Act 129 became effective. This law created requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the use of smart metering technology, imposed new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provided remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. Prior to the expiration of the generation rate caps, customers' interest in purchasing generation supply from other providers was limited because in recent years, the long-term supply agreement between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus provided a below-market cost of generation supply for these customers. As a result, a limited amount of "shopping" occurred. In 2010, several alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory. When its customers purchase supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric as PLR, the purchase of such supply has no significant impact on the operating results of PPL Electric. The cost to purchase PLR supply is passed directly by PPL Electric to its customers without markup. For those customers who receive their supply from an alternative supplier, PPL Electric may act as billing agent or the alternative supplier may bill for their supply directly, and in either case, PPL Electric does not record revenues or expenses related to this supply. PPL Electric remains the distribution provider for all the customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for the service of delivering that electricity. Lower demand for electric power due to increased prices, the economic downturn or the conservation provisions of Act 129 that require PPL Electric to reduce its customers' electricity usage in future periods, could impact future revenues. The reduction in volume could be offset by changes in customer rates for this service, subject to PUC approval, depending on PPL Electric's cost structure. Act 129 includes one-time penalties of up to $20 million for not attaining the required reductions by 2011 and 2013. At this time, PPL Electric expects to meet these targeted reductions. The costs of complying with the other provisions of Act 129 would, subject to PUC approval, be recoverable through an automatic adjustment clause. None of the above changes are expected to have a significant impact on PPL Electric's 2010 financial condition, operating results or cash flows. With the expiration of the long-term power purchase agreements between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, PPL EnergyPlus now has multiple options as to how, and to whom, it sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants. These sales are based on prevailing market rates, as compared to pre-determined capped rates under the expired supply agreements with PPL Electric. PPL EnergyPlus has entered into various wholesale and retail contracts to sell this power and at this time has hedged almost 100% of expected 2010 baseload generation output. The expiration of the long-term supply agreements with PPL Electric also provides PPL Energy Supply the ability to adjust its exposure to fluctuations in demand that existed with supplying PPL Electric's PLR load. Entry of new generation suppliers into the Pennsylvania marketplace provides PPL Energy Supply the ability to provide generation supply to additional wholesale customers. Overall, these changes and the resulting level of hedged electricity prices are expected to have a positive impact on the financial condition, operating results and cash flows of PPL Energy Supply. PPL Electric's customers are no longer funding contributions to Susquehanna's NDT funds. PPL will continue to manage the NDT funds until the PPL Susquehanna plant is decommissioned. If the balance of the NDT funds is not adequate to cover decommissioning costs, PPL Susquehanna will be responsible to fund 90% of the shortfall. The Susquehanna nuclear units currently are licensed to operate until 2042 and 2044. The final expiration of generation rate caps in Pennsylvania, applicable to three other large regulated utilities, is scheduled to occur at the end of 2010. Discussions concerning generation rate caps and rate increase mitigation are continuing. The final result of those discussions and the future impact on the financial condition and future cash flows of PPL cannot be predicted at this time. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information on Pennsylvania legislative and other regulatory activities. Market Events In 2008, conditions in the financial markets became disruptive to the processes of managing credit risk, responding to liquidity needs, measuring derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value, and managing market risk. Bank credit capacity was reduced and the cost of renewing or establishing new credit facilities increased, thereby introducing uncertainties as to PPL's ability to enter into long-term energy commitments or reliably estimate the longer-term cost and availability of credit. In general, bank credit capacity has increased from the significantly constrained levels of 2008 and early 2009. In addition, the cost of renewing or establishing new credit facilities has improved when compared with the 2008 and early 2009 periods. Commodity Price Risk The contraction in wholesale energy market liquidity and accompanying decline in wholesale energy prices due to conditions in the financial and commodity markets significantly impacted PPL's earnings during the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. See "Statement of Income Analysis - Domestic Gross Energy Margins - Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Region" for further discussion. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that PPL would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL maintains credit policies and procedures to limit counterparty credit risk. Conditions in the financial and commodity markets have generally increased PPL's exposure to credit risk. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements, and "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other - Credit Risk" for more information on credit risk. Liquidity Risk PPL expects to continue to have access to adequate sources of liquidity through operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and, from time to time, the issuance of capital market securities. PPL's ability to access capital markets may be impacted by conditions in the overall financial and capital markets, as well as conditions specific to the utility sector. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for an expanded discussion of PPL's liquidity position and a discussion of its forecasted sources of cash. Valuations in Inactive Markets Conditions in the financial markets have generally made it difficult to determine the fair value of certain assets and liabilities in inactive markets. Management has reviewed the activity in the energy and financial markets in which PPL transacts, concluding that all of these markets were active at December 31, 2009, with the exception of the market for auction rate securities. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements and "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Auction Rate Securities" for a discussion of these investments. Securities Price Risk Declines in the market price of debt and equity securities result in unrealized losses that reduce the asset values of PPL's investments in its defined benefit plans and NDT funds. Both the defined benefit plans and the NDT funds earned positive returns in the second half of 2009, thereby recovering a portion of the negative returns incurred in 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. PPL actively monitors the performance of the investments held in its defined benefit plans and NDT funds and periodically reviews the funds' investment allocations. See "Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other - NDT Funds - Securities Price Risk" for additional information on securities price risk. Determination of the funded status of defined benefit plans, contribution requirements and net periodic defined benefit costs for future years are subject to changes in various assumptions, in addition to the actual performance of the assets in the plans. See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Defined Benefits" for a discussion of the assumptions and sensitivities regarding those assumptions. The Economic Stimulus Package The Economic Stimulus Package was intended to stimulate the U.S. economy through federal tax relief, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social stimulus provisions, domestic spending for education, health care and infrastructure, including the energy sector. A portion of the benefits included in the Economic Stimulus Package are offered in the form of loan fee reductions, expanded loan guarantees and secondary market incentives, including delayed recognition for tax purposes of income related to the cancellation of certain types of debt. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the applicability to the purchase of notes by PPL. Funds from the Economic Stimulus Package have been allocated to various federal agencies, such as the DOE, and provided to state agencies through block grants. The DOE has made awards of the funds for smart grid, efficiency-related and renewable energy programs. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has also made awards for funding certain energy projects, including solar projects. As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, PPL has reconsidered and decided to pursue its Holtwood expansion project in view of the tax incentives and potential loan guarantees for renewable energy projects contained in the Economic Stimulus Package. PPL Energy Supply has applied for DOE loan guarantees for the Holtwood expansion project and, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, for the Rainbow redevelopment project. In addition, in July 2009, PPL Electric proposed to the DOE that the agency provide funding for one-half of a $38 million smart grid project. The project would use smart grid technology to strengthen reliability, save energy and improve electric service for 60,000 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania area customers. It would also provide benefits beyond the Harrisburg region, helping to speed power restoration across PPL Electric's 29-county service territory. In October 2009, PPL Electric received notification that its grant proposal had been selected by the DOE for award negotiations. PPL Electric cannot predict the outcome of these award negotiations. Results of Operations PPL presents tables analyzing changes in amounts between periods within "Segment Results" and "Statement of Income Analysis" on a constant U.K. foreign currency exchange rate basis, where applicable, in order to isolate the impact of the change in the exchange rate on the item being explained. Results computed on a constant U.K. foreign currency exchange rate basis are calculated by translating current year results at the prior year weighted-average foreign currency exchange rate. Earnings Net income attributable to PPL and the related EPS were: 2009 2008 2007 Net income attributable to PPL $ 407 $ 930 $ 1,288 EPS - basic $ 1.08 $ 2.48 $ 3.37 EPS - diluted $ 1.08 $ 2.47 $ 3.34 The changes in net income attributable to PPL from year to year were, in part, due to several special items that management considers significant. Details of these special items are provided within the review of each segment's earnings. The year-to-year changes in significant earnings components, including domestic gross energy margins by region and significant income statement line items, are explained in the "Statement of Income Analysis." PPL's earnings beyond 2009 are subject to various risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1A. Risk Factors," the rest of this Item 7 and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and factors that may impact PPL's future earnings. Segment Results Net income attributable to PPL by segment was: 2009 2008 2007 Supply $ 40 $ 479 $ 568 International Delivery 243 290 610 Pennsylvania Delivery 124 161 110 Total $ 407 $ 930 $ 1,288 Supply Segment The Supply segment primarily consists of the domestic energy marketing and trading activities, as well as the generation and development operations of PPL Energy Supply. In December 2009, PPL Maine sold its 8.33% ownership interest in Wyman Unit 4. In November 2009, PPL Maine completed the sale of the majority of its hydroelectric generation business. In May 2009, PPL Generation signed a definitive agreement to sell its Long Island generation business and expects the sale to close on or about February 26, 2010. In August 2007, PPL completed the sale of its domestic telecommunication operations. See Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The Supply segment results reflect the classification of the Long Island generation business, the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business, and the 8.33% ownership interest in Wyman Unit 4, as Discontinued Operations. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Supply segment net income attributable to PPL was: 2009 2008 2007 Energy revenues External (a) $ 3,227 $ 3,371 $ 1,576 Intersegment 1,806 1,826 1,810 Energy-related businesses 391 486 732 Total operating revenues 5,424 5,683 4,118 Fuel and energy purchases External (a) 3,608 3,108 1,419 Intersegment 70 108 156 Other operation and maintenance 867 827 707 Depreciation 226 193 163 Taxes, other than income 29 19 31 Energy-related businesses 380 467 745 Total operating expenses 5,180 4,722 3,221 Other Income - net 50 24 40 Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 18 36 3 Interest Expense 191 200 154 Income Taxes 31 283 221 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (13 ) 15 12 Net Income 41 481 571 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 1 2 3 Net Income Attributable to PPL $ 40 $ 479 $ 568 (a) Includes impact from energy-related economic activity. See "Commodity Price Risk (Non-trading) - Economic Activity" in Note 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The after-tax changes in net income attributable to PPL between these periods were due to the following factors. 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Eastern U.S. non-trading margins $ (3 ) $ (62 ) Western U.S. non-trading margins 20 5 Net energy trading margins 81 (95 ) Energy-related businesses (3 ) (4 ) Other operation and maintenance (30 ) 18 Depreciation (19 ) (18 ) Taxes, other than income (6 ) 7 Other income - net 9 (8 ) Interest expense 5 (28 ) Income taxes (16 ) (61 ) Discontinued operations (Note 9) (9 ) 3 Other 1 2 Special items (469 ) 152 $ (439 ) $ (89 ) · See "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" for an explanation of non-trading margins and net energy trading margins. · Other operation and maintenance expenses increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to increased payroll-related costs, higher contractor-related costs and other costs at PPL's generation plants. Other operation and maintenance expenses decreased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to lower costs at PPL's nuclear power plants and lower defined benefit costs. · Depreciation expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to the scrubbers at Brunner Island and Montour and the portions of the Susquehanna uprate projects that were placed in service in 2008 and 2009. Depreciation expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the Montour scrubbers and the Susquehanna uprate project that were placed in service in 2008. · Interest expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to increased interest on long-term debt resulting from new issuances, partially offset by hedging activities. · Income taxes increased in 2009 compared with 2008, in part due to lower domestic manufacturing deductions in 2009. Income taxes increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the loss of synfuel tax credits as the projects ceased operation at the end of 2007. · Special items decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a $476 million after-tax change in energy-related economic activity. The change is primarily the result of certain power and gas cash flow hedges failing hedge effectiveness testing in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, as well as the first quarter of 2009. Hedge accounting is not permitted for the quarter in which this occurs and, accordingly, the entire change in fair value for the periods that failed was recorded to the income statement. However, these transactions were not dedesignated as hedges, as prospective regression analysis demonstrated that these hedges are expected to be highly effective over their term. For 2008, an after-tax gain of $298 million was recognized in earnings as a result of these hedge failures. During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, fewer power and gas cash flow hedges failed hedge effectiveness testing; therefore, a portion of the previously recognized unrealized gains recorded in the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 associated with these hedges were reversed. For 2009, after-tax losses of $215 million were recognized in earnings. The following after-tax amounts, which management considers special items, also impacted the Supply segment's earnings. 2009 2008 2007 Energy-related economic activity (Note 18) $ (225 ) $ 251 $ 32 Sales of assets Long Island generation business (a) (33 ) Interest in Wyman Unit 4 (Note 9) (4 ) Majority of Maine hydroelectric generation business (Note 9) 22 Domestic telecommunication operations (Note 8) (23 ) Impairments Impacts from emission allowances (b) (19 ) (25 ) Other asset impairments (c) (4 ) (15 ) Adjustments - NDT investments (d) (17 ) Transmission rights (e) (13 ) Workforce reduction (Note 12) (6 ) (1 ) (4 ) Other Change in tax accounting method related to repairs (Note 5) (21 ) Montana hydroelectric litigation (Note 14) (3 ) Synthetic fuel tax adjustment (Note 14) (13 ) Montana basin seepage litigation (Note 14) (5 ) Off-site remediation of ash basin leak (Note 14) 1 Settlement of Wallingford cost-based rates (f) 33 PJM billing dispute (1 ) Total $ (293 ) $ 176 $ 24 (a) Consists primarily of the initial impairment charge recorded in June 2009 when this business was classified as held for sale. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the anticipated sale. (b) 2009 primarily consists of a pre-tax charge of $37 million related to sulfur dioxide emission allowances. See Note 17 to the Financial Statements for additional information. 2008 consists of charges related to annual nitrogen oxide allowances and put options. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) 2008 primarily consists of a pre-tax charge of $22 million related to the cancellation of the Holtwood hydroelectric expansion project. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (d) Represents other-than-temporary impairment charges on securities, including reversals of previous impairments when previously impaired securities were sold. (e) See "Other Operation and Maintenance" for more information on the $23 million pre-tax impairment recorded in 2007. (f) In 2003, PPL Wallingford and PPL EnergyPlus sought from the FERC cost-based payments based upon the RMR status of four units at the Wallingford, Connecticut generating facility. In 2007, as a result of a settlement agreement, PPL recognized $55 million of revenue and $4 million of interest income. 2010 Outlook Excluding special items, PPL projects higher earnings from its Supply segment in 2010 compared with 2009, due to growth in energy margins. The forecast for growth in energy margins is based on hedged power and fuel prices as well as established capacity prices in PJM. These positive factors are expected to be partially offset by higher depreciation, financing costs and operation and maintenance expenses. International Delivery Segment The International Delivery segment consists primarily of the electricity distribution operations in the U.K. In 2007, PPL completed the sale of its Latin American businesses. In 2008, the International Delivery segment recognized income tax benefits and miscellaneous expenses in Discontinued Operations in connection with the dissolution of certain Latin American holding companies. In 2009, the International Delivery segment recognized $24 million of income tax expense in Discontinued Operations related to a correction of the calculation of tax bases of the Latin American businesses sold in 2007. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The International Delivery segment results reflect the classification of its Latin American businesses as Discontinued Operations. International Delivery segment net income attributable to PPL was: 2009 2008 2007 Utility revenues $ 684 $ 824 $ 863 Energy-related businesses 32 33 37 Total operating revenues 716 857 900 Other operation and maintenance 140 186 252 Depreciation 115 134 147 Taxes, other than income 57 66 67 Energy-related businesses 16 14 17 Total operating expenses 328 400 483 Other Income - net (11 ) 17 26 Interest Expense 87 144 183 Income Taxes 20 45 (43 ) Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (27 ) 5 313 Net Income 243 290 616 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 6 Net Income Attributable to PPL $ 243 $ 290 $ 610 The after-tax changes in net income attributable to PPL between these periods were due to the following factors. 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 U.K. Delivery margins $ 17 $ 12 Other operating expenses 7 22 Other income - net (4 ) (7 ) Depreciation (4 ) 4 Interest expense 28 5 Income taxes 24 24 Foreign currency exchange rates (69 ) (14 ) Gain on transfer of equity investment (5 ) Other (4 ) (3 ) Discontinued Operations (Note 9) (5 ) (49 ) U.S. interest expense 17 U.S. income taxes 1 (32 ) Gain (loss) on economic hedges (Note 15) (12 ) 10 Other 2 6 Special items (28 ) (310 ) $ (47 ) $ (320 ) · Lower U.K. other operating expenses in 2008 compared with 2007, were primarily due to lower compensation and lower pension costs. · Lower U.K. interest expense in 2009 compared with 2008, was primarily due to lower inflation rates on U.K. Index-linked Senior Unsecured Notes and lower debt balances. · Lower U.K. income taxes in 2009 compared with 2008, were primarily due to HMRC's determination related to the valuation of a business activity sold in 1999 and to the deductibility of foreign currency exchange losses, partially offset by the items in 2008 mentioned below. Lower U.K. income taxes in 2008 compared with 2007, were primarily due to HMRC's determination related to deductibility of imputed interest on a loan from Hyder and a change in tax law that included the phase-out of tax depreciation on industrial buildings over a four-year period. · Changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted U.K. earnings for both periods. The weighted-average exchange rates for the British pound sterling were approximately $1.53 in 2009, $1.91 in 2008 and $2.00 in 2007. · Higher U.S. income taxes in 2008 compared with 2007, was primarily due to the change in a U.S. income tax reserve resulting from the lapse in 2007 of an applicable statute of limitations. The following after-tax amounts, which management considers special items, also impacted the International Delivery segment's earnings. 2009 2008 2007 Foreign currency-related economic hedges - unrealized impacts (Note 18) $ 1 Sales of assets Latin American businesses (Note 9) (27 ) $ 259 Impairments (1 ) Workforce reduction (Note 12) (2 ) $ (1 ) (4 ) Other Change in U.K. tax rate (Note 5) 54 Total $ (29 ) $ (1 ) $ 309 2010 Outlook Excluding special items, PPL projects lower earnings from its International Delivery segment in 2010 compared with 2009, as a result of higher income taxes, higher operation and maintenance expenses and higher financing costs. These negative factors are expected to be partially offset by higher electricity delivery margins and a more favorable currency exchange rate. In December 2009, Ofgem completed its rate review for the five-year period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015. Ofgem allowed WPD an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 6.9% in each of the five years. The revenue increase includes reimbursement to electricity distributors for higher operating and capital costs to be incurred. Also, Ofgem set the weighted average cost of capital at 4.7%, which includes pre-tax debt and post-tax equity costs and excludes adjustments for inflation, for all distribution companies. This is a 0.8% decrease from the previous regulatory period. Additionally, Ofgem has established strong incentive mechanisms to provide companies significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability or customer service. Pennsylvania Delivery Segment The Pennsylvania Delivery segment includes the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL Electric. In October 2008, PPL sold its natural gas distribution and propane businesses. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The Pennsylvania Delivery segment results in 2008 and 2007 reflect the classification of PPL's natural gas distribution and propane businesses' as Discontinued Operations. Pennsylvania Delivery segment net income attributable to PPL was: 2009 2008 2007 Operating revenues External $ 3,222 $ 3,293 $ 3,254 Intersegment 70 108 156 Total operating revenues 3,292 3,401 3,410 Fuel and energy purchases External 114 163 207 Intersegment 1,806 1,826 1,810 Other operation and maintenance 417 410 406 Amortization of recoverable transition costs 304 293 310 Depreciation 128 131 132 Taxes, other than income 194 203 200 Total operating expenses 2,963 3,026 3,065 Other Income - net 10 14 31 Interest Expense 118 111 135 Income Taxes 79 102 81 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations 3 (32 ) Net Income 142 179 128 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 18 18 18 Net Income Attributable to PPL $ 124 $ 161 $ 110 The after-tax changes in net income attributable to PPL between these periods were due to the following factors. 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Delivery revenues (net of CTC/ITC amortization, interest expense on transition bonds and ancillary charges) $ (16 ) $ 32 Other operation and maintenance 3 (5 ) Other income - net (2 ) (10 ) Interest expense (12 ) 1 Discontinued operations (Note 9) (9 ) (3 ) Other 2 (3 ) Special items (3 ) 39 $ (37 ) $ 51 · Delivery revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to unfavorable economic conditions, including industrial customers scaling back on production and the unfavorable impact of weather on sales volumes. See "Revenue Recognition" in Note 1 to the Financial Statements for information on a true-up of FERC formula-based transmission revenues. Delivery revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to a base rate increase effective January 1, 2008 and normal load growth. · Other operation and maintenance expenses increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to insurance recovery of storm costs in 2007, higher vegetation management costs and higher regulatory asset amortization. · Other income - net decreased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to a decrease in intersegment interest income resulting from a decrease in the average balance outstanding on a note receivable and a lower average floating interest rate. · Interest expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to $400 million of debt issuances in October 2008 that prefunded a portion of August 2009 debt maturities. The following after-tax amounts, which management considers special items, also impacted the Pennsylvania Delivery segment's earnings. 2009 2008 2007 Sales of assets Gas and propane businesses (Note 9) $ (6 ) $ (44 ) Impairments $ (1 ) Workforce reduction (a) (5 ) (1 ) Other Change in tax accounting method related to repairs (Note 5) (3 ) Total $ (9 ) $ (6 ) $ (45 ) (a) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information related to the 2009 workforce reduction. 2010 Outlook Excluding special items, PPL projects lower earnings from its Pennsylvania Delivery segment in 2010 compared with 2009, as a net result of lower distribution revenues, primarily due to continued slow economic growth and weak customer demand; higher operation and maintenance expenses; offset by lower financing costs. In late March 2010, PPL Electric expects to file a request with the PUC seeking an increase in its distribution rates beginning in January 2011. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of items that could impact future earnings, including Pennsylvania legislative and other regulatory activities. Statement of Income Analysis -- Domestic Gross Energy Margins Non-GAAP Financial Measure The following discussion includes financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as a non-GAAP financial measure, "Domestic Gross Energy Margins." The presentation of "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" is intended to supplement the investor's understanding of PPL's domestic non-trading and trading activities by combining applicable income statement line items and related adjustments to calculate a single financial measure. PPL believes that "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" are useful and meaningful to investors because they provide them with the results of PPL's domestic non-trading and trading activities as another criterion in making their investment decisions. PPL's management also uses "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" in measuring certain corporate performance goals used in determining variable compensation. Other companies may use different measures to present the results of their non-trading and trading activities. Additionally, "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" are not intended to replace "Operating Income," which is determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of overall operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation between "Operating Income" and "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" as defined by PPL. 2009 2008 2007 Operating Income (a) $ 961 $ 1,793 $ 1,659 Adjustments: Energy-related businesses, net (b) (27 ) (38 ) (7 ) Other operation and maintenance (a) 1,424 1,423 1,365 Amortization of recoverable transition costs (a) 304 293 310 Depreciation (a) 469 458 442 Taxes, other than income (a) 280 288 298 Revenue adjustments (c) (1,705 ) (3,219 ) (1,981 ) Expense adjustments (c) 25 566 (262 ) Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 1,824 (a) As reported on the Statements of Income. (b) Amount represents the net of "Energy-related businesses" revenue and expense as reported on the Statements of Income. (c) The components of these adjustments are detailed in the tables below. The following tables provide the income statement line items and other adjustments that comprise domestic gross energy margins. 2009 2008 Change Revenue Utility (a) $ 3,902 $ 4,114 $ (212 ) Unregulated retail electric and gas (a) 152 151 1 Wholesale energy marketing (a) 3,062 3,344 (282 ) Net energy trading margins (a) 17 (121 ) 138 Revenue adjustments (b) WPD utility revenue (684 ) (824 ) 140 Domestic delivery component of utility revenue (1,265 ) (1,325 ) 60 Other utility revenue (61 ) (52 ) (9 ) Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) 274 (1,061 ) 1,335 Gains from sale of emission allowances (d) 2 6 (4 ) Revenues from Supply segment discontinued operations (e) 29 37 (8 ) Total revenue adjustments (1,705 ) (3,219 ) 1,514 5,428 4,269 1,159 Expense Fuel (a) 931 1,084 (153 ) Energy purchases (a) 2,791 2,187 604 Expense adjustments (b) Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (109 ) (632 ) 523 Domestic electric ancillaries (f) (43 ) (54 ) 11 Gross receipts tax (g) 112 113 (1 ) Other 15 7 8 Total expense adjustments (25 ) (566 ) 541 3,697 2,705 992 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 167 2008 2007 Change Revenue Utility (a) $ 4,114 $ 4,114 Unregulated retail electric and gas (a) 151 102 $ 49 Wholesale energy marketing (a) 3,344 1,436 1,908 Net energy trading margins (a) (121 ) 41 (162 ) Revenue adjustments (b) WPD utility revenue (824 ) (863 ) 39 Domestic delivery component of utility revenue (1,325 ) (1,308 ) (17 ) Other utility revenue (52 ) (48 ) (4 ) RMR revenues (52 ) 52 Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (1,061 ) 145 (1,206 ) Gains from sale of emission allowances (d) 6 109 (103 ) Revenues from Supply segment discontinued operations (e) 37 36 1 Total revenue adjustments (3,219 ) (1,981 ) (1,238 ) 4,269 3,712 557 Expense Fuel (a) 1,084 890 194 Energy purchases (a) 2,187 736 1,451 Expense adjustments (b) Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (632 ) 200 (832 ) Domestic electric ancillaries (f) (54 ) (50 ) (4 ) Gross receipts tax (g) 113 112 1 Other 7 7 Total expense adjustments (566 ) 262 (828 ) 2,705 1,888 817 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,564 $ 1,824 $ (260 ) (a) As reported on the Statements of Income. (b) To include/exclude the impact of any revenues and expenses not associated with domestic gross energy margins, consistent with the way management reviews domestic gross energy margins internally. (c) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding economic activity. (d) Included in "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income. (e) Represents revenues associated with the Long Island generation business and the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (f) Included in "Energy purchases" on the Statements of Income. (g) Included in "Taxes, other than income" on the Statements of Income. Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Region Domestic gross energy margins are generated through PPL's non-trading and trading activities. PPL manages its non-trading energy business on a geographic basis that is aligned with its generation assets. 2009 2008 Change Non-trading Eastern U.S. $ 1,391 $ 1,396 $ (5 ) Western U.S. 323 289 34 Net energy trading 17 (121 ) 138 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 167 2008 2007 Change Non-trading Eastern U.S. $ 1,396 $ 1,502 $ (106 ) Western U.S. 289 281 8 Net energy trading (121 ) 41 (162 ) Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,564 $ 1,824 $ (260 ) Eastern U.S. Eastern U.S. non-trading margins were $5 million lower in 2009 compared with 2008. This decrease was primarily due to lower margins on full-requirement sales contracts resulting from mild weather, decreased demand, and customer migration. Also contributing to the decrease were higher average baseload generation fuel costs of 7%, primarily due to higher coal prices. Partially offsetting these lower margins were net gains resulting from the settlement of economic positions associated with rebalancing PPL's portfolios to better align them with current strategies, higher capacity revenue, higher baseload generation output due to unplanned major outages in 2008, and a 2.2% increase in the PLR sales prices in accordance with the PUC Final Order. Eastern U.S. non-trading margins were $106 million lower in 2008 compared with 2007. This decrease was primarily due to higher fuel costs, up 16%, primarily due to higher coal prices. Also contributing to the decrease was lower baseload generation, down 4%, primarily due to the unplanned outages at the eastern coal-fired units and retirement of the Martins Creek coal-fired units in September 2007. Partially offsetting these lower margins were higher margins from the hedged sale of generation in the wholesale market and a 1.4% increase in PLR sales prices in accordance with the PUC Final Order. Western U.S. Western U.S. non-trading margins were $34 million higher in 2009 compared with 2008. This increase was primarily due to higher wholesale volumes of 6% and increased generation from the hydroelectric units of 5%. Western U.S. non-trading margins were $8 million higher in 2008 compared with 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased generation from the hydroelectric units of 2%. Net Energy Trading PPL enters into energy contracts to take advantage of market opportunities. As a result, PPL may at times create a net open position in its portfolio that could result in significant losses if prices do not move in the manner or direction anticipated. However, these trading activities are subject to risk management program limits that are designed to protect PPL from undue financial loss. The margins from these trading activities are reflected in the Statements of Income as "Net energy trading margins." These physical and financial contracts cover trading activity associated with electricity, emission allowances, uranium, FTRs, natural gas, and oil. Net energy trading margins increased by $138 million in 2009 compared with 2008. This increase consisted of $215 million of higher unrealized margins partially offset by $77 million of lower realized margins. These changes were primarily due to increased margins in the power, gas and oil trading positions resulting from unrealized trading losses in 2008 due to a dramatic decline in energy prices and a severe contraction of liquidity in the wholesale power markets. Net energy trading margins decreased by $162 million in 2008 compared with 2007. This decrease consists of $135 million of lower unrealized margins and $27 million of lower realized margins, both driven by significant decreases in power and gas prices in the second half of 2008. Utility Revenues The changes in utility revenues were attributable to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Domestic: Retail electric revenue (PPL Electric) Delivery $ (60 ) $ 17 PLR (21 ) 19 Other 9 3 U.K.: Foreign currency exchange rates (154 ) (42 ) Electric delivery revenue 14 3 $ (212 ) $ The decreases in utility revenues for 2009 compared with 2008, excluding foreign currency exchange rate impacts, were primarily due to: · lower domestic retail electric revenues, attributable to unfavorable economic conditions, including industrial customers scaling back on production. In addition, weather had an unfavorable impact on sales volumes. These decreases were partially offset by favorable price increases. See "Revenue Recognition" in Note 1 to the Financial Statements for information on a true-up of FERC formula-based transmission revenues. · higher U.K. electric delivery revenues, attributable primarily to an increase in prices effective April 1, a revised estimate of network electricity losses, and favorable changes in customer mix. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes due to unfavorable economic conditions, including industrial customers scaling back on production, and a decrease in engineering and metering services performed for third parties. The increases in utility revenues for 2008 compared with 2007, excluding foreign currency exchange rate impacts, were primarily due to higher PLR revenue, attributable to normal load growth and a favorable price increase, and higher domestic delivery revenue, primarily due to a base rate increase effective January 1, 2008, as well as normal load growth. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of weather on residential and commercial sales in 2008. Energy-related Businesses Energy-related businesses contributed $11 million less to operating income in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to: · contributions from domestic energy services-related businesses decreasing by $7 million, primarily due to a decline in construction activity caused by the slowdown in the economy; and · contributions from U.K. energy-related businesses decreasing by $4 million, primarily due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Energy-related businesses contributed $31 million more to operating income in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to: · a $39 million impairment in 2007 of domestic telecommunication operations that were sold in 2007; and · an $11 million increase in contributions from domestic energy services-related businesses mainly due to increased construction activity; partially offset by · $11 million of lower pre-tax contributions from synfuel projects. This reflects a $77 million net gain recorded in 2007 on options purchased to hedge the risk associated with the phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits. This decrease was partially offset by $66 million less in operating losses from synfuel projects as the projects ceased operation at the end of 2007; and · $5 million less in contributions from the domestic telecommunication operations sold in 2007. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of domestic telecommunications assets. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the shutdown of the synfuel facilities in 2007. Other Operation and Maintenance The increases in other operation and maintenance expenses were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Payroll-related costs $ 29 $ 2 Defined benefit costs - U.S. (Note 12) 18 (7 ) Domestic and international workforce reductions (Note 12) 18 (7 ) WPD distribution costs 15 7 Montana hydroelectric litigation (Note 14) 8 1 Other costs at fossil/hydroelectric stations 7 1 Other nuclear related expenses 7 (10 ) Lower gains on sales of emission allowances 4 103 Impairment of transmission rights (a) (23 ) Contractor-related expenses (15 ) U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (24 ) (8 ) Impairment of cancelled generation expansion project in 2008 (Note 8) (22 ) 22 Defined benefit costs - U.K. (Note 12) (16 ) (28 ) PUC-reportable storm costs (11 ) (4 ) WPD recoverable engineering services (9 ) (17 ) Impairment and other charges - emission allowances (Notes 14 and 17) (9 ) 42 Montana basin seepage litigation (Note 14) (8 ) 8 WPD meter operator expenses (7 ) (6 ) Other - Domestic 6 Other - U.K. (5 ) (3 ) $ 1 $ 58 (a) In 2007, Maine Electric Power Company (MEPCO), ISO New England and other New England transmission owners submitted a filing to the FERC seeking to roll the revenue requirement of the MEPCO transmission facilities into the regional transmission rates in New England and to change certain rules concerning the use of the transmission line for energy and capacity. PPL protested this proposal and recorded an impairment of the transmission rights based on their estimated fair value. Amortization of Recoverable Transition Costs Amortization of recoverable transition costs increased by $11 million in 2009 compared with 2008 and decreased by $17 million in 2008 compared with 2007. The amortization of recoverable transition costs was based on a PUC amortization schedule, adjusted for ITC and CTC recoveries in customer rates and related expenses. Since the amortization substantially matches the revenue recorded based on recovery in customer rates, there is minimal impact on earnings. At the end of 2009, PPL's recoverable transition costs have been fully amortized. Depreciation Increases in depreciation expense were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Additions to PP&E (a) $ 43 $ 39 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (25 ) (7 ) Extension of useful lives of certain WPD network assets in mid-2007 (Note 1) (13 ) Other (7 ) (3 ) $ 11 $ 16 (a) Primarily attributable to the completion of the Susquehanna generation uprate and the Montour scrubber projects in 2008 and the Brunner Island scrubber projects in 2009. Taxes, Other Than Income The decreases in taxes, other than income were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates $ (12 ) $ (3 ) Pennsylvania gross receipts tax (a) (12 ) 6 Domestic property tax expense (b) 10 (8 ) Domestic sales and use tax 4 (4 ) Other 2 (1 ) $ (8 ) $ (10 ) (a) The decrease in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the tax rate in 2009. The increase in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily due to an increase in the tax rate in 2008. Gross receipts tax is passed through to customers. (b) The change in both periods was primarily due to a $7 million property tax credit recorded by PPL Montana in 2008. Other Income - net See Note 16 to the Financial Statements for details of other income. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments Other-than-temporary impairments decreased by $18 million in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to stronger investment returns caused by improved market conditions within the financial markets. Other-than-temporary impairments increased by $33 million in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to negative investment returns caused by the downturn in the financial markets in 2008. Interest Expense The decreases in interest expense were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Hedging activities $ (30 ) $ (28 ) Inflation adjustment on U.K. Index-linked Senior Unsecured Notes (29 ) 6 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (17 ) (8 ) Repayment of transition bonds (13 ) (22 ) Capitalized interest 13 (1 ) Short-term debt interest expense 6 7 Long-term debt interest expense 4 28 Amortization of debt issuance costs 3 5 Other 4 (4 ) $ (59 ) $ (17 ) Income Taxes The changes in income taxes were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Higher (lower) pre-tax book income $ (298 ) $ 32 Tax on foreign earnings (a) (43 ) (3 ) Synthetic fuel and other tax credits (b) (17 ) 72 Valuation allowance adjustments (13 ) Tax return adjustments (c) 40 (8 ) Domestic manufacturing deduction 13 (2 ) U.K. Finance Act adjustments (d) 8 46 Tax reserve adjustments (a) (c) (e) 1 44 Other 9 (10 ) $ (300 ) $ 171 (a) During 2009, WPD recorded a $46 million foreign tax benefit (and a full tax reserve reflected in "Tax reserve adjustments") related to losses generated by restructuring. (b) The Section 29/45K synthetic fuel tax credits expired at the end of 2007. During 2008, PPL recorded a $13 million adjustment to its estimated 2007 fuel tax credits as a result of the IRS publishing the final 2007 inflation-adjusted credit in April 2008. (c) During 2009, PPL received consent from the IRS to change its method of accounting for certain expenditures for tax purposes. PPL deducted the resulting IRC Sec. 481 adjustment on its 2008 tax return and recorded a $24 million adjustment to federal and state income tax expense, which results from the reduction of federal income tax benefits, related to the domestic manufacturing deduction and a reduction of certain state tax benefits related to state net operating losses and regulated depreciation. During 2008, WPD recorded tax benefits of approximately $17 million from tax return adjustments that were fully reserved. (d) The U.K.'s Finance Act of 2008, enacted in July 2008, included a phase-out of tax depreciation on certain buildings. As a result, WPD recorded an $8 million deferred tax benefit during 2008 related to the reduction in its deferred tax liabilities. The U.K.'s Finance Act of 2007, enacted in July 2007, included a reduction in the U.K.'s statutory income tax rate. Effective April 1, 2008, the statutory income tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28%. As a result, WPD recorded a $54 million deferred tax benefit during 2007 related to the reduction in its deferred tax liabilities. (e) PPL recorded an $8 million and $35 million benefit in 2008 and 2007 as a result of the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. Additionally, PPL recorded tax benefits of $27 million in 2009 for the settlement of a tax dispute and foreign currency exchange losses. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes. Discontinued Operations See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information related to: · the anticipated sale of the Long Island generation business; · the sale of the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business in 2009; · the sale of the 8.33% interest in Wyman Unit 4 in 2009; · the sale of the Latin American businesses in 2007 and the substantial dissolution of the remaining holding companies in 2008; and · the sale of the natural gas distribution and propane businesses in 2008. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources PPL expects to continue to have adequate liquidity available through operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents and its credit facilities. Additionally, subject to market conditions, PPL currently plans to access debt capital markets in 2010. PPL currently does not plan to access commercial paper markets or equity capital markets in 2010. PPL's cash flows from operations and access to cost-effective bank and capital markets are subject to risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to: · changes in market prices for electricity; · changes in commodity prices that may increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount PPL receives from selling power; · operational and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale power markets; · potential ineffectiveness of the trading, marketing and risk management policy and programs used to mitigate PPL's risk exposure to adverse electricity and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and counterparty credit; · unusual or extreme weather that may damage PPL's transmission and distribution facilities or affect energy sales to customers; · reliance on transmission and distribution facilities that PPL does not own or control to deliver its electricity and natural gas; · unavailability of generating units (due to unscheduled or longer-than-anticipated generation outages, weather and natural disasters) and the resulting loss of revenues and additional costs of replacement electricity; · the ability to recover and the timeliness and adequacy of recovery of costs associated with regulated utility businesses; · costs of compliance with existing and new environmental laws and with new security and safety requirements for nuclear facilities; · any adverse outcome of legal proceedings and investigations with respect to PPL's current and past business activities; · deterioration in the financial markets that could make obtaining new sources of bank and capital markets funding more difficult and more costly; and · a downgrade in PPL's or its rated subsidiaries' credit ratings that could adversely affect their ability to access capital and increase the cost of credit facilities and any new debt. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further discussion of risks and uncertainties affecting PPL's cash flows. At December 31, PPL had the following: 2009 2008 2007 Cash and cash equivalents $ 801 $ 1,100 $ 430 Short-term investments (a) (b) 150 108 $ 801 $ 1,250 $ 538 Short-term debt $ 639 $ 679 $ 92 (a) 2008 amount represents tax-exempt bonds issued by the PEDFA in December 2008 on behalf of PPL Energy Supply and purchased by a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply upon issuance. Such bonds were refunded in April 2009. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for further discussion. (b) Includes $15 million of auction rate securities at December 31, 2007. See below for a discussion of auction rate securities. The changes in PPL's cash and cash equivalents position resulted from: 2009 2008 2007 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 1,852 $ 1,589 $ 1,571 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (880 ) (1,627 ) (614 ) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (1,271 ) 721 (1,326 ) Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (13 ) 5 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (299 ) $ 670 $ (364 ) Auction Rate Securities PPL held auction rate securities with an aggregate par value of $25 million and $29 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Historically, an active market existed for such investments, and the auctions provided an opportunity for investors either to hold an investment at a periodically reset interest rate or to sell the investment at its par value for immediate liquidity. In early 2008, investor concerns about credit and liquidity in the financial markets, generally, as well as investor concerns over specific insurers that guarantee the credit of certain of the underlying securities, created uncertainty in the auction rate securities market and these securities generally failed to be remarketed through their established auction process. The auctions continue to fail and the resulting illiquidity continues to impact PPL's investment in auction rate securities. At December 31, 2008, PPL estimated that the fair value of its auction rate securities was $24 million, which is reflected in "Other investments" on the Balance Sheet and represented a temporary decline of $5 million from par value. In 2009, PPL liquidated $4 million of auction rate securities at par. At December 31, 2009, PPL estimated that the fair value of its auction rate securities was equal to par value, which was $25 million and is reflected in "Other investments" on the Balance Sheet. PPL reversed the previously recorded temporary impairment. Because PPL intends and has the ability to hold these auction rate securities until they can be liquidated at par value, PPL believes that it does not have significant exposure to realize losses on these securities. Based upon the evaluation of available information, PPL believes these investments continue to be of high credit quality. Additionally, PPL does not anticipate having to sell these securities to fund operations. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of auction rate securities. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 17%, or $263 million in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily as a result of cash collateral received from counterparties and the benefit of lower income tax payments due to the change in method of accounting for certain expenditures for tax purposes. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2009 compared with 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 1%, or $18 million, in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily as a result of higher revenues, primarily due to the hedged sale of generation in the wholesale market, increased retail electric sales volumes and a 1.4% increase in domestic delivery sales prices, as well as less U.S. income tax payments, primarily as a result of a refund received in 2008, and operating losses incurred in 2007 in connection with synfuel projects that ceased operation at the end of 2007. The increases to cash provided by operating activities resulting from these items were partially offset by increased expenditures for fuel, primarily due to higher coal prices, lower realized net energy trading margins, driven by significant decreases in power and gas prices, higher interest paid, primarily due to higher debt levels in 2008, cash flows provided by Latin America's operations in 2007 but not 2008, due to the sale of the Latin American businesses in 2007, and an insurance recovery of storm costs in 2007. A significant portion of PPL's operating cash flows is derived from its Supply segment baseload generation business activities. PPL employs a formal hedging program for its baseload generation fleet, the primary objective of which is to provide a reasonable level of near-term cash flow and earnings certainty over the next three years, while preserving upside potential if power prices increase over the medium term. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for further discussion. Based on its generation portfolio contracting practices (including related fuel purchases and commitments), PPL expects to achieve relatively stable cash flows related to baseload generation during the next three years, although, future cash flows from operating activities are expected to be influenced more by commodity prices than during the past nine years when long-term supply contracts were in place between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric. As discussed in "Item 1. Business," PPL estimates that, on average, approximately 94% of its total expected annual generation output (which includes baseload and other generation) for 2010 is committed under power sales contracts. PPL has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2011 and beyond. In addition, PPL expects to be able to achieve relatively stable cash flows related to PPL Electric's role as PLR due to contracts it has entered into to procure the 2010 and a portion of 2011 PLR electricity supply it expects to need for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information on these energy purchase contracts. PPL's contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity and fuel often require cash collateral or other credit enhancements, or reductions or terminations of a portion of the entire contract through cash settlement, in the event of a downgrade of PPL's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings or adverse changes in market prices. For example, in addition to limiting its trading ability, if PPL's or its subsidiaries' ratings were lowered to below "investment grade" and there was a 10% adverse movement in energy prices, PPL estimates that, based on its December 31, 2009 positions, it would have had to post additional collateral of approximately $291 million, compared with $815 million at December 31, 2008. PPL has in place risk management programs that are designed to monitor and manage its exposure to volatility of cash flows related to changes in energy and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, counterparty credit quality and the operating performance of its generating units. Investing Activities The primary use of cash in investing activities is capital expenditures. See "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for detail regarding capital expenditures in 2009 and projected expenditures for the years 2010 through 2012. Net cash used in investing activities decreased 46%, or $747 million in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily as a result of a change of $289 million from restricted cash and cash equivalents, a change of $249 million from purchases and sales of other investments, a change of $241 million from purchases and sales of intangible assets and a decrease of $193 million in capital expenditures. See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of restricted cash and cash equivalents and Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the purchase and sale by a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply. The decrease in cash used in investing activities from the above items was partially offset by the change in proceeds received from the sale of businesses, which are discussed in Note 9 to the Financial Statements. PPL received $303 million from the sale of the gas and propane businesses in 2008 compared to proceeds of $81 million received from the sale of the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business in 2009. Net cash used in investing activities increased 165%, or $1.0 billion, in 2008 compared with 2007, as PPL received $303 million from the sale of the gas and propane businesses in 2008 compared to aggregate proceeds of $898 million received from the sale of the Latin American businesses and telecommunication operations in 2007. See Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of these sales. Additionally, there was a change of $354 million from purchases and sales of other investments and a change of $359 million from purchases and sales of intangible assets. The increase in cash used in investing activities from the above items was partially offset by a decrease of $239 million in capital expenditures and a decrease of $54 million in the amount of cash and cash equivalents that became restricted. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.3 billion in 2009 compared with $721 million of cash provided by financing activities in 2008 and net cash used in financing activities of $1.3 billion in 2007. The change from 2008 to 2009 primarily reflects fewer issuances and increased retirements of long-term debt in 2009, as well as the net repayment of short-term borrowings in 2009. The change from 2007 to 2008 primarily reflects increased issuances and lower retirements of long-term debt, lower repurchases of common stock and increased short-term borrowings in 2008. In 2009, cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of net debt retirements of $770 million and common stock dividends paid of $517 million, partially offset by $60 million of common stock sale proceeds. In 2008, cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of net debt issuances of $1.3 billion and $19 million of common stock sale proceeds, partially offset by common stock dividends paid of $491 million and the repurchase of 802,816 shares of common stock for $38 million. In 2007, cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of net debt retirements of $170 million, the repurchase of 14,929,892 shares of common stock for $712 million and common stock dividends paid of $459 million, partially offset by $32 million of common stock sale proceeds. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the common stock repurchase program. See "Forecasted Sources of Cash" for a discussion of PPL's plans to issue debt and equity securities, as well as a discussion of credit facility capacity available to PPL. Also see "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for a discussion of plans to pay dividends on common and preferred securities in the future, as well as maturities of long-term debt. PPL's debt financing activity in 2009 was: Issuances (a) Retirements PPL Capital Funding Senior Unsecured Notes $ (201 ) PPL Energy Supply Senior Unsecured Notes (a) (220 ) PPL Electric Senior Secured Bonds (b) $ 298 (586 ) Variable Rate Pollution Control Facilities Note (9 ) PPL Electric short-term debt (95 ) WPD short-term debt (net change) 43 Total $ 341 $ (1,111 ) Net decrease $ (770 ) (a) In March 2009, PPL Energy Supply paid $220 million, plus accrued interest, to complete tender offers to purchase up to $250 million aggregate principal amount of certain of its outstanding senior notes in order to reduce future interest expense. Under the Economic Stimulus Package, PPL will be permitted to defer recognition of income related to the extinguishment of these notes for tax purposes. No amounts will be included in taxable income for the first five years. Beginning in 2014, income related to the extinguishment of these notes will be included in taxable income ratably over five years. (b) Issuance is net of pricing discount. Retirements exclude a $9 million premium paid in connection with the December 2009 redemption of PPL Electric's 4.30% Senior Secured Bonds due 2013. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding PPL's financing activities in 2009. Forecasted Sources of Cash PPL expects to continue to have significant sources of cash available in the near term, including various credit facilities, a commercial paper program and operating leases. PPL currently does not plan to access commercial paper markets in 2010 and plans to issue up to $300 million and £400 million in long-term debt securities in 2010, subject to market conditions. Credit Facilities At December 31, 2009, PPL's total committed borrowing capacity under credit facilities and the use of this borrowing capacity were: Committed Capacity Borrowed Letters of Credit Issued (a) Unused Capacity PPL Energy Supply Domestic Credit Facilities (b) $ 4,125 $ 285 $ 662 $ 3,178 PPL Electric Credit Facilities (c) 340 6 334 Total Domestic Credit Facilities (d) $ 4,465 $ 285 $ 668 $ 3,512 WPDH Limited Credit Facility (e) ₤ 150 ₤ 132 n/a ₤ 18 WPD (South West) Credit Facilities (f) 214 60 ₤ 3 151 Total WPD Credit Facilities (g) ₤ 364 ₤ 192 ₤ 3 ₤ 169 (a) The borrower under each of these facilities has a reimbursement obligation to the extent any letters of credit are drawn upon. (b) PPL Energy Supply has the ability to borrow $3.6 billion under its credit facilities. Such borrowings generally bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's public debt rating. PPL Energy Supply also has the capability to cause the lenders to issue up to $3.9 billion of letters of credit under these facilities, which issuances reduce available borrowing capacity. Under certain conditions, PPL Energy Supply may request that the capacity of one of its facilities be increased by up to $500 million. These credit facilities contain a financial covenant requiring debt to total capitalization to not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, PPL Energy Supply's consolidated debt to total capitalization percentages, as calculated in accordance with its credit facilities, were 46% and 44%. The credit facilities also contain standard representations and warranties that must be made for PPL Energy Supply to borrow under them. The committed capacity expires as follows: $600 million in 2010, $300 million in 2011 and $3.2 billion in 2012. PPL Energy Supply intends to renew or replace the two credit facilities that expire in 2010 in order to maintain its current total committed capacity level. (c) Borrowings under PPL Electric's $190 million syndicated credit facility generally bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's public debt rating. PPL Electric also has the capability to request the lenders to issue up to $190 million of letters of credit under this facility, which issuances reduce available borrowing capacity. Under certain conditions, PPL Electric may request that the facility's capacity be increased by up to $100 million. The syndicated credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring debt to total capitalization to not exceed 70%. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, PPL Electric's consolidated debt to total capitalization percentages, as calculated in accordance with its credit facility, were 44% and 53%. The syndicated credit facility also contains standard representations and warranties that must be made for PPL Electric to borrow under it. Committed capacity includes a $150 million credit facility related to an asset-backed commercial paper program through which PPL Electric obtains financing by selling and contributing its eligible accounts receivable and unbilled revenues to a special purpose, wholly owned subsidiary on an ongoing basis. The subsidiary pledges these assets to secure loans of up to an aggregate of $150 million from a commercial paper conduit sponsored by a financial institution. At December 31, 2009, based on accounts receivable and unbilled revenue pledged, $150 million was available for borrowing. The committed capacity expires as follows: $150 million in 2010 and $190 million in 2012. PPL Electric intends to renew its existing $150 million asset-backed credit facility in 2010 in order to maintain its current total committed capacity level. (d) The commitments under PPL's domestic credit facilities are provided by a diverse bank group, with no one bank and its affiliates providing an aggregate commitment of more than 15% of the total committed capacity. (e) Borrowings under WPDH Limited's credit facility bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's public debt rating. This credit facility contains financial covenants that require WPDH Limited to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 times consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and a RAB that exceeds total net debt by the higher of an amount equal to 15% of total net debt or £150 million, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit facility. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, WPDH Limited's interest coverage ratios, as calculated in accordance with its credit facility, were 4.3 and 4.6. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, WPDH Limited's RAB, as calculated in accordance with the credit facility, exceeded its total net debt by £325 million, or 25%, and £385 million, or 31%. (f) WPD (South West) has two credit facilities: one under which it can make cash borrowings and another under which it has the capability to cause the lender to issue up to approximately £4 million of letters of credit. Borrowings bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a margin. The credit facility under which it can make cash borrowings contains financial covenants that require WPD (South West) to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 times consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and total net debt not in excess of 85% of RAB, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit facility. At December 31, 2009, WPD (South West)'s interest coverage ratio, as calculated in accordance with its credit facility, was 5.3. At December 31, 2009, WPD (South West)'s total net debt, as calculated in accordance with the credit facility, was 67% of RAB. (g) The commitments under WPD's credit facilities are provided by eight banks, with no one bank providing more than 25% of the total committed capacity. The committed capacity of WPD's credit facilities expires as follows: £4 million in 2010, £210 million in 2012 and £150 million in 2013. WPD (South West) intends to renew its letter of credit facility that expires in 2010 in order for WPD to maintain its current total committed capacity level. At December 31, 2009, the unused capacity of WPD's credit facilities was approximately $276 million. In addition to the financial covenants noted in the table above, the credit agreements governing the credit facilities contain various other covenants. Failure to comply with the covenants after applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of repayment of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. PPL monitors compliance with the covenants on a regular basis. At December 31, 2009, PPL was in material compliance with these covenants. At this time, PPL believes that these covenants and other borrowing conditions will not limit access to these funding sources. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of PPL's credit facilities. Commercial Paper PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric usually maintain commercial paper programs, under which commercial paper issuances are supported by certain credit facilities of each company, to provide an additional financing source to fund their short-term liquidity needs, if and when necessary. As discussed below under "Credit Ratings," S&P lowered its rating on PPL Energy Supply's commercial paper to A-3 from A-2 in January 2009. Since PPL Energy Supply did not plan to issue any commercial paper during 2009 and there was essentially no liquidity in commercial paper markets for paper with an A-3 rating, PPL Energy Supply closed its $500 million commercial paper program in January 2009 and requested that Moody's, S&P and Fitch each withdraw their ratings on its commercial paper program, which each rating agency subsequently did. PPL Energy Supply may reopen its commercial paper program in the future, depending on market conditions and credit ratings, to provide an additional financing source to fund its short-term liquidity needs, if and when necessary. Any future commercial paper issuances would be supported by PPL Energy Supply's credit facilities. PPL Electric has a $200 million commercial paper program in place. As noted below under "Credit Ratings," commercial paper for PPL Electric is rated P-2, A-2 and F2 by Moody's, S&P and Fitch. Market conditions to issue commercial paper with these ratings have strengthened significantly since 2008, when the downturn in the financial markets created extremely limited liquidity resulting in high borrowing rates. PPL Electric did not issue any commercial paper during 2009. Based on its current cash position and anticipated cash flows, PPL Electric currently does not plan to issue any commercial paper during 2010, but it may do so from time to time, subject to market conditions, to facilitate short-term cash flow needs. Operating Leases PPL and its subsidiaries also have available funding sources that are provided through operating leases. PPL's subsidiaries lease office space, land, buildings and certain equipment. These leasing structures provide PPL additional operating and financing flexibility. The operating leases contain covenants that are typical for these agreements, such as maintaining insurance, maintaining corporate existence and timely payment of rent and other fees. PPL, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, leases a 50% interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2 and a 30% interest in Unit 3, under four 36-year, non-cancelable operating leases. These operating leases are not recorded on PPL's Balance Sheets. The leases place certain restrictions on PPL Montana's ability to incur additional debt, sell assets and declare dividends. At this time, PPL believes that these restrictions will not limit access to these funding sources or cause acceleration or termination of the leases. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of other dividend restrictions related to PPL subsidiaries. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the operating leases. Long-Term Debt and Equity Securities Subject to market conditions, PPL and its subsidiaries currently plan to issue up to $300 million and £400 million in long-term debt securities in 2010. PPL expects to use the proceeds from these issuances for the repayment of short-term debt, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes. PPL currently plans to issue new shares of common stock in 2010 in an aggregate amount of approximately $75 million under various employee stock-based compensation plans and its dividend reinvestment plan. Forecasted Uses of Cash In addition to expenditures required for normal operating activities, such as purchased power, payroll, fuel and taxes, PPL currently expects to incur future cash outflows for capital expenditures, various contractual obligations, payment of dividends on its common and preferred securities and possibly the purchase or redemption of a portion of debt securities. Capital Expenditures The table below shows PPL's actual spending for the year 2009 and current capital expenditure projections for the years 2010 through 2012. Actual Projected 2009 2010 2011 2012 Construction expenditures (a) (b) Generating facilities $ 361 $ 671 $ 673 $ 507 Transmission and distribution facilities 511 862 1,097 990 Environmental 178 63 19 99 Other 75 114 107 106 Total Construction Expenditures 1,125 1,710 1,896 1,702 Nuclear fuel 140 151 173 171 Total Capital Expenditures $ 1,265 $ 1,861 $ 2,069 $ 1,873 (a) Construction expenditures include capitalized interest and AFUDC, which are expected to be approximately $190 million for the years 2010 through 2012. (b) Includes expenditures for certain intangible assets. PPL's capital expenditure projections for the years 2010 through 2012 total approximately $5.8 billion. Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically to reflect changes in operational, market and regulatory conditions. This table includes projected costs related to the planned 239 MW of incremental capacity increases, PPL Electric's asset optimization program focused on the replacement of aging transmission and distribution assets, and the PJM-approved regional transmission line expansion project. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for information on the PJM-approved regional transmission line expansion project and the other significant development projects. PPL plans to fund its capital expenditures in 2010 with cash on hand, cash from operations and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities. Contractual Obligations PPL has assumed various financial obligations and commitments in the ordinary course of conducting its business. At December 31, 2009, the estimated contractual cash obligations of PPL were: Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years After 5 Years Long-term Debt (a) $ 7,066 $ 500 $ 1,447 $ 5,119 Interest on Long-term Debt (b) 8,342 $ 421 812 705 6,404 Operating Leases 968 108 216 223 421 Purchase Obligations (c) 8,123 3,153 2,212 868 1,890 Other Long-term Liabilities Reflected on the Balance Sheet under GAAP (d) (e) 80 62 18 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 24,579 $ 3,744 $ 3,758 $ 3,243 $ 13,834 (a) Reflects principal maturities only based on legal maturity dates. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the remarketing feature related to PPL Energy Supply's 5.70% REset Put Securities, as well as discussion of variable-rate remarketable bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric. PPL does not have any significant capital lease obligations. (b) Assumes interest payments through maturity. The payments herein are subject to change, as payments for debt that is or becomes variable-rate debt have been estimated and payments denominated in British pounds sterling have been translated to U.S. dollars at a current foreign currency exchange rate. (c) The payments reflected herein are subject to change, as certain purchase obligations included are estimates based on projected obligated quantities and/or projected pricing under the contracts. Purchase orders made in the ordinary course of business are excluded from the amounts presented. The payments also include obligations related to nuclear fuel and the installation of the scrubbers, which are also reflected in the Capital Expenditures table presented above. (d) The amounts reflected represent WPD's contractual deficit pension funding requirements arising from an actuarial valuation performed in March 2007. The U.K. electricity regulator currently allows a recovery of a substantial portion of the contributions relating to the plan deficit; however, WPD cannot be certain that this will continue beyond the current and next review periods, which extend to March 31, 2015. Based on the current funded status of PPL's U.S. qualified pension plans, no cash contributions are required. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of expected contributions. (e) At December 31, 2009, total unrecognized tax benefits of $212 million were excluded from this table as PPL cannot reasonably estimate the amount and period of future payments. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Dividends PPL views dividends as an integral component of shareowner return and expects to continue to pay dividends in amounts that are within the context of maintaining a capitalization structure that supports investment grade credit ratings. In 2009, PPL increased the annualized dividend rate on its common stock from $1.34 to $1.38 per share, effective with the April 1, 2009 dividend payment. Future dividends will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon available earnings, cash flows, financial requirements and other relevant factors at the time. As discussed in Note 7 to the Financial Statements, PPL may not declare or pay any cash dividend on its common stock during any period in which PPL Capital Funding defers interest payments on its 2007 Series A Junior Subordinated Notes due 2067. No such deferrals have occurred or are currently anticipated. PPL Electric expects to continue to pay quarterly dividends on its outstanding preferred securities, if and as declared by its Board of Directors. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for other restrictions related to distributions on capital interests for PPL subsidiaries. Purchase or Redemption of Debt Securities PPL will continue to evaluate purchasing or redeeming outstanding debt securities and may decide to take action depending upon prevailing market conditions and available cash. Credit Ratings Moody's, S&P and Fitch periodically review the credit ratings on the debt and preferred securities of PPL and its subsidiaries. Based on their respective independent reviews, the rating agencies may make certain ratings revisions or ratings affirmations. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the creditworthiness associated with an issuer and particular securities that it issues. The credit ratings of PPL and its subsidiaries are based on information provided by PPL and other sources. The ratings of Moody's, S&P and Fitch are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any securities of PPL or its subsidiaries. Such ratings may be subject to revisions or withdrawal by the agencies at any time and should be evaluated independently of each other and any other rating that may be assigned to the securities. A downgrade in PPL's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The following table summarizes the credit ratings of PPL and its rated subsidiaries at December 31, 2009: Moody's S&P Fitch (a) PPL Issuer Rating Baa2 BBB BBB Outlook Negative Negative STABLE PPL Capital Funding Issuer Rating BBB Senior Unsecured Debt Baa2 BBB- BBB Junior Subordinated Notes Baa3 BB+ BBB- Outlook Negative STABLE PPL Energy Supply (b) Issuer Rating BBB BBB Senior Unsecured Notes Baa2 BBB BBB Outlook STABLE Negative STABLE PPL Electric (c) Senior Unsecured/Issuer Rating Baa1 A- BBB First Mortgage Bonds/ Senior Secured Bonds A3 A- A- Commercial Paper P-2 A-2 F2 Preferred Stock Baa3 BBB BBB Preference Stock Baa3 BBB BBB Outlook Negative Negative STABLE PPL Montana Pass-Through Certificates Baa3 BBB- BBB Outlook STABLE STABLE WPDH Limited Issuer Rating Baa3 BBB- BBB- Senior Unsecured Debt Baa3 BBB- BBB Short-term Debt A-3 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE WPD LLP Issuer Rating BBB Outlook POSITIVE WPD (South Wales) Issuer Rating BBB+ BBB+ Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB+ A- Short-term Debt A-2 F2 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE WPD (South West) Issuer Rating Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB+ A- Short-term Debt P-2 A-2 F2 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE (a) All Issuer Ratings for Fitch are "Issuer Default Ratings." (b) Excludes Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply, which are each currently supported by a letter of credit and are rated on the basis of the credit enhancement. (c) Excludes Pollution Control Revenue Bonds issued by the LCIDA and the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Electric, of which the LCIDA bonds are insured and may be rated on the basis of relevant factors, including the insurer's ratings. In January 2009, S&P completed a review of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric and revised its outlook for all three entities to negative from stable. At that time, S&P affirmed the BBB issuer rating of both PPL and PPL Energy Supply and affirmed the A- issuer rating of PPL Electric. As a result of the negative outlook at PPL Energy Supply, S&P lowered the commercial paper rating of PPL Energy Supply to A-3 from A-2. S&P stated in its press release regarding PPL and PPL Energy Supply that the revision in the outlook for PPL and PPL Energy Supply was based primarily on lower than expected cash flows for 2008 combined with concerns over further pressure on financial metrics in 2009. S&P stated in its press release regarding PPL Electric that the revision in its outlook reflects the linkage with PPL along with their expectation that PPL Electric's financial metrics could weaken beginning in 2010. At the request of PPL Energy Supply, in the first quarter of 2009, Moody's, S&P and Fitch each withdrew their commercial paper rating for PPL Energy Supply. In February 2009, S&P revised its outlook to negative from stable for each of WPDH Limited, WPD LLP, WPD (South Wales) and WPD (South West) and affirmed the issuer and short-term debt ratings of each of the entities. S&P stated in its press release that the revision in the outlook is a reflection of the change to PPL's outlook and is not a result of any change in WPD's stand-alone credit profile. In May 2009, Moody's completed a review of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric. As a result of that review, Moody's revised its outlook for PPL, PPL Capital Funding, and PPL Electric to negative from stable. At the same time, Moody's affirmed the Baa2 senior unsecured rating and stable outlook of PPL Energy Supply. Moody's stated in its press release that the revision in the outlook for PPL Electric reflects Moody's expectation that PPL Electric's financial metrics will deteriorate beyond 2009 and considers the potential for additional pressure on cash flows. Moody's also stated that the revision in the outlook for PPL and PPL Capital Funding reflects the increasing support for corporate earnings and cash flow anticipated from PPL Energy Supply and the subordinate position of the unsecured lenders at these entities relative to the unsecured lenders at the subsidiary levels. At WPD's request, in September 2009, S&P withdrew its ratings for WPD LLP, since it did not have any securities outstanding. In October 2009, Fitch completed a review of PPL, PPL Electric and PPL Energy Supply. As a result of that review, Fitch lowered the rating of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured notes to BBB from BBB+ and affirmed all other ratings of PPL Energy Supply. At the same time, Fitch affirmed all ratings of PPL, PPL Capital Funding and PPL Electric. Fitch stated in its press release that the change in the rating of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured notes aligns such rating with the BBB Issuer Default Rating in a manner that is consistent with the approach Fitch applies to other competitive generators and also recognizes a lower valuation of PPL Energy Supply's power assets based on current and forward wholesale power prices. The rating also reflects Fitch's forecast of lower than previously expected improvement in PPL Energy Supply's earnings and cash flow in 2010 and 2011. In January 2010, as a result of implementing its recently revised guidelines for rating preferred stock and hybrid securities, Fitch lowered the rating of PPL Capital Funding's junior subordinated notes to BB+ from BBB- and lowered the ratings of PPL Electric's preferred stock and preference stock to BBB- from BBB. Fitch stated in its press release that the new guidelines, which apply to instruments issued by companies in all sectors, typically resulted in downgrades of one notch for many instruments that provide for the ability to defer interest or dividend payments. Fitch stated that it has no reason to believe that deferral will be activated. Ratings Triggers WPD (South West)'s 1.541% Index-linked Notes due 2053 and 2056 and WPD (South Wales)'s 4.80436% Notes due 2037 may be put by the holders back to the issuer for redemption if the long-term credit ratings assigned to the notes by Moody's, S&P or Fitch are withdrawn by any of the rating agencies or reduced to a non-investment grade rating of Ba1 or BB+ in connection with a restructuring event. A restructuring event includes the loss of, or a material adverse change to, the distribution license under which WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) operate. These notes totaled £467 million (approximately $766 million) at December 31, 2009. PPL and PPL Energy Supply have various derivative and non-derivative contracts, including contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity and fuel, commodity transportation and storage, tolling agreements, and interest rate and foreign currency instruments, which contain provisions requiring PPL and PPL Energy Supply to post additional collateral, or permit the counterparty to terminate the contract, if PPL's or PPL Energy Supply's credit rating were to fall below investment grade. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of "Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features," including a discussion of the potential additional collateral that would have been required for derivative contracts in a net liability position at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, if PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's credit ratings had been below investment grade, PPL would have been required to post an additional $298 million of collateral to counterparties for both derivative and non-derivative commodity and commodity-related contracts used in its generation, marketing and trading operations and interest rate and foreign currency contracts. Guarantees for Subsidiaries At times, PPL provides guarantees for financing arrangements to enable certain transactions for its consolidated affiliates, excluding PPL Electric. Some of the guarantees contain financial and other covenants that, if not met, would limit or restrict the consolidated affiliates' access to funds under these financing arrangements, require early maturity of such arrangements or limit the consolidated affiliates' ability to enter into certain transactions. At this time, PPL believes that these covenants will not limit access to relevant funding sources. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information about guarantees. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements PPL has entered into certain agreements that may contingently require payment to a guaranteed or indemnified party. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of these agreements. Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other Market Risk See Notes 1, 17, and 18 to the Financial Statements for information about PPL's risk management objectives, valuation techniques and accounting designations. The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions and model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from those presented. These disclosures are not precise indicators of expected future losses, but only indicators of possible losses under normal market conditions at a given confidence level. Commodity Price Risk (Non-trading) PPL segregates its non-trading activities into two categories: hedge activity and economic activity. Transactions that are accounted for as hedge activity qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The economic activity category includes transactions that address a specific risk, but were not eligible for hedge accounting or for which hedge accounting was not elected. This activity includes the changes in fair value of positions used to hedge a portion of the economic value of PPL's generation assets, load-following and retail activities. This economic activity is subject to changes in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., fuel and power). Although they do not receive hedge accounting treatment, these transactions are considered non-trading activity. The net fair value of economic positions at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was a net liability of $77 million and $52 million. See Note 18 for additional information on economic activity. To hedge the impact of market price volatility on PPL's energy-related assets, liabilities and other contractual arrangements, PPL EnergyPlus sells and purchases physical energy at the wholesale level under FERC market-based tariffs throughout the U.S. and enters into financial exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts. PPL's non-trading commodity derivative contracts mature at various times through 2017. Within PPL's non-trading portfolio, the decision to enter into energy contracts is influenced by the expected value of PPL's generation. In determining the number of MWhs that are available to be sold forward, PPL first reduces the potential output by the amount of unavailable generation due to planned maintenance on a particular unit. The potential output is further reduced by the amount of MWhs that historically is not produced by a plant due to such factors as equipment breakage. Finally, the potential output of certain plants (such as peaking units) is reduced if their higher cost of production will not allow them to economically run during all hours. PPL's non-trading portfolio also includes full requirements energy contracts. The net obligation to serve these contracts changes minute-by-minute. Anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks are affected by expected load changes, regional economic drivers, customer shopping or migration and seasonal weather patterns. PPL analyzes historical on-peak and off-peak usage patterns, expected load changes, regional economic drivers, and weather patterns, among other factors, to determine monthly levels of electricity that best fits usage patterns to minimize earnings exposure. To satisfy its full requirements obligations, PPL generally enters into contracts to purchase unbundled products of electricity, capacity, RECs and other ancillary products. To a lesser extent, PPL reserves a portion of its generation for full requirements contracts that is expected to be the best match with anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks. The following chart sets forth the net fair value of PPL's non-trading commodity derivative contracts. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Gains (Losses) 2009 2008 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ 402 $ (305 ) Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 189 (49 ) Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 143 101 Changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques (a) 158 Other changes in fair value 546 497 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 1,280 $ 402 (a) Amount represents the reduction of valuation reserves related to capacity and FTR contracts upon the adoption of fair value accounting guidance. The following table segregates the net fair value of PPL's non-trading commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 based on whether the fair value was determined by prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments or other more subjective means. Net Asset (Liability) Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1-3 Years Maturity 4-5 Years Maturity In Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Source of Fair Value Prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments Prices based on significant other observable inputs $ 363 $ 736 $ 73 $ 1,172 Prices based on significant unobservable inputs (1 ) 13 30 $ 66 108 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 362 $ 749 $ 103 $ 66 $ 1,280 PPL sells electricity, capacity and related services and buys fuel on a forward basis to hedge the value of energy from its generation assets. If PPL were unable to deliver firm capacity and energy or to accept the delivery of fuel under its agreements, under certain circumstances it could be required to pay liquidating damages. These damages would be based on the difference between the market price and the contract price of the commodity. Depending on price changes in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, nonperformance by counterparties (or their own counterparties) with which it has energy contracts and other factors could affect PPL's ability to meet its obligations, or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement energy. Although PPL attempts to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that it will be able to fully meet its firm obligations, that it will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform, or that it will not experience counterparty nonperformance in the future. Commodity Price Risk (Trading) PPL's trading contracts mature at various times through 2015. The following table sets forth changes in the net fair value of PPL's trading commodity derivative contracts. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Gains (Losses) 2009 2008 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ (75 ) $ 16 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 2 (18 ) Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 31 28 Changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques (a) 11 Other changes in fair value 36 (112 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ (6 ) $ (75 ) (a) In the fourth quarter of 2008, PPL refined its valuation approach for FTR and PJM basis positions, consistent with PPL's practice of pricing other less active trading points, resulting in changes in valuation techniques. PPL will reverse unrealized gains of approximately $1 million over the next three months as the transactions are realized. The following table segregates the net fair value of PPL's trading commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 based on whether the fair value was determined by prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments or other more subjective means. Net Asset (Liability) Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1-3 Years Maturity 4-5 Years Maturity in Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Source of Fair Value Prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments $ 1 $ 1 Prices based on significant other observable inputs (4 ) $ (5 ) $ 2 $ 1 (6 ) Prices based on significant unobservable inputs (1 ) (1 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ (4 ) $ (5 ) $ 2 $ 1 $ (6 ) VaR Models PPL utilizes a VaR model to measure commodity price risk in domestic gross energy margins for its non-trading and trading portfolios. VaR is a statistical model that attempts to estimate the value of potential loss over a given holding period under normal market conditions at a given confidence level. PPL calculates VaR using a Monte Carlo simulation technique based on a five-day holding period at a 95% confidence level. Given the company's conservative hedging program, PPL's non-trading VAR exposure is expected to be limited in the short term. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the VaR for PPL's portfolios using end-of-quarter results for the period was as follows. Trading VaR Non-Trading VaR 2009 2008 2009 2008 95% Confidence Level, Five-Day Holding Period Period End $ 3 $ 3 $ 8 $ 10 Average for the Period 4 10 9 14 High 8 22 11 20 Low 1 3 8 9 The trading portfolio includes all speculative positions, regardless of the delivery period. All positions not considered speculative are considered non-trading. PPL's non-trading portfolio includes PPL's entire portfolio, including generation, with delivery periods through the next 12 months. Both the trading and non-trading VaR computations exclude FTRs due to the absence of reliable spot and forward markets. The fair value of the FTR positions at December 31, 2009 was an unrealized loss of $3 million and consisted of the following. 2010 2011 Trading (a) Non-trading $ (2 ) $ (1 ) Total $ (2 ) $ (1 ) (a) The amount of trading FTR positions was less than $1 million at December 31, 2009. Interest Rate Risk PPL and its subsidiaries have issued debt to finance their operations, which exposes them to interest rate risk. PPL utilizes various financial derivative instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in its debt portfolio, adjust the duration of its debt portfolio and lock in benchmark interest rates in anticipation of future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under the risk management program are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility in interest expense and changes in the fair value of PPL's debt portfolio due to changes in the absolute level of interest rates. At December 31, 2009, PPL's potential annual exposure to increased interest expense, based on a 10% increase in interest rates, was $1 million, compared with $3 million at December 31, 2008. PPL is also exposed to changes in the fair value of its domestic and international debt portfolios. PPL estimated that a 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 would increase the fair value of its debt portfolio by $285 million, compared with $327 million at December 31, 2008. At December 31, PPL had the following interest rate hedges outstanding. 2009 2008 Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) (a) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Rates (b) Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) (a) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Rates (b) Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps (c) $ 425 $ 24 $ (24 ) $ 200 $ (11 ) $ (12 ) Cross-currency swaps (d) 302 8 (41 ) 302 54 (8 ) Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps (e) 750 31 (12 ) 500 54 (5 ) (a) Includes accrued interest, if applicable. (b) Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability. (c) PPL utilizes various risk management instruments to reduce its exposure to the expected future cash flow variability of its debt instruments. These risks include exposure to adverse interest rate movements for outstanding variable rate debt and for future anticipated financing. While PPL is exposed to changes in the fair value of these instruments, any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in equity and then reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the item being hedged affects earnings. Sensitivities represent a 10% adverse movement in interest rates. (d) WPDH Limited uses cross-currency swaps to hedge the interest payments and principal of its U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes with maturity dates ranging from December 2017 to December 2028. While PPL is exposed to changes in the fair value of these instruments, any change in the fair value of these instruments is recorded in equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the item being hedged affects earnings. Sensitivities represent a 10% adverse movement in both interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. (e) PPL utilizes various risk management instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in its debt portfolio. The change in fair value of these instruments, as well as the offsetting change in the value of the hedged exposure of the debt, is reflected in earnings. Sensitivities represent a 10% adverse movement in interest rates. Foreign Currency Risk PPL is exposed to foreign currency risk, primarily through investments in U.K. affiliates. In addition, PPL's domestic operations may make purchases of equipment in currencies other than U.S. dollars. See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding foreign currency translation. PPL has adopted a foreign currency risk management program designed to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized assets or liabilities, anticipated transactions and net investments. In addition, PPL enters into financial instruments to protect against foreign currency translation risk of expected earnings. At December 31, PPL had the following foreign currency hedges outstanding. 2009 2008 Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates (a) Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates (a) Net investment hedges (b) £ 40 $ 13 $ (6 ) £ 68 $ 34 $ (10 ) Economic hedges (c) 48 2 (4 ) (a) Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability. (b) To protect the value of a portion of its net investment in WPD, PPL executed forward contracts to sell British pounds sterling. The settlement dates of these contracts range from March 2010 through June 2011. (c) To economically hedge the translation of 2010 expected income denominated in British pounds sterling to U.S. dollars, PPL entered into a combination of average rate forwards and average rate options to sell British pounds sterling. The forwards and options have termination dates ranging from January 2010 through June 2010. NDT Funds - Securities Price Risk In connection with certain NRC requirements, PPL Susquehanna maintains trust funds to fund certain costs of decommissioning the Susquehanna nuclear station. At December 31, 2009, these funds were invested primarily in domestic equity securities and fixed-rate, fixed-income securities and are reflected at fair value on PPL's Balance Sheet. The mix of securities is designed to provide returns sufficient to fund Susquehanna's decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities included in the trusts are exposed to price fluctuation in equity markets, and the values of fixed-rate, fixed-income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. PPL actively monitors the investment performance and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust policy statement. At December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and a 10% decrease in equity prices would have resulted in an estimated $40 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets, compared with $27 million at December 31, 2008. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding the NDT funds. Defined Benefit Plans - Securities Price Risk See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Defined Benefits" for additional information regarding the effect of securities price risk on plan assets. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that PPL would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparty credit (including requirements that counterparties maintain specified credit ratings) and requires other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstances in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However, PPL has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, financial institutions and other energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations may impact PPL's overall exposure to credit risk, positively or negatively, as counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions. PPL includes the effect of credit risk on its fair value measurements to reflect the probability that a counterparty will default when contracts are out of the money (from the counterparty's standpoint). In this case, PPL would have to sell into a lower-priced market or purchase from a higher-priced market. When necessary, PPL records an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the probability that a counterparty will not pay for deliveries PPL has made but not yet billed, which are reflected in "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance Sheets. PPL also has established a reserve with respect to certain sales to the California ISO for which PPL has not yet been paid, which is reflected in accounts receivable on the Balance Sheets. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information. In 2007, the PUC approved PPL Electric's post-rate cap plan to procure default electricity supply for retail customers who do not choose an alternative competitive supplier in 2010. From 2007 through 2009, PPL Electric conducted six competitive solicitations to purchase electricity generation supply for these customers. In October 2009, PPL Electric purchased 2010 supply for fixed-price default service to large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service. In November 2009, PPL Electric purchased supply to provide hourly default service to large commercial and industrial customers in 2010. In June 2009, the PUC approved PPL Electric's procurement plan for the period January 2011 through May 2013. The first two of 14 planned competitive solicitations occurred in 2009. Under the standard Supply Master Agreement (the Agreement) for the bid solicitation process, PPL Electric requires all suppliers to post collateral if their credit exposure exceeds an established credit limit. In the event a supplier defaults on its obligation, PPL Electric would be required to seek replacement power in the market. All incremental costs incurred by PPL Electric would be recoverable from customers in future rates. At December 31, 2009, all of the successful bidders under all of the solicitations had an investment grade credit rating from S&P, and were not required to post collateral under the Agreement. There is no instance under the Agreement in which PPL Electric is required to post collateral to its suppliers. See "Overview" in this Item 7 and Notes 14, 15, 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the competitive solicitations, the Agreement, credit concentration and credit risk. Related Party Transactions PPL is not aware of any material ownership interests or operating responsibility by senior management of PPL, PPL Energy Supply or PPL Electric in outside partnerships, including leasing transactions with variable interest entities, or other entities doing business with PPL. For additional information on related party transactions, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures PPL is currently planning incremental capacity increases of 239 MW, primarily at its existing generating facilities. See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for additional information. PPL continuously reexamines development projects based on market conditions and other factors to determine whether to proceed with the projects, sell, cancel or expand them, execute tolling agreements or pursue other options. See Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the more significant activities. Environmental Matters See "Item 1. Business - Environmental Matters" and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental matters. Competition See "Item 1. Business - Competition" under each of PPL's reportable segments and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of competitive factors affecting PPL. New Accounting Guidance See Notes 1 and 22 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting guidance adopted and pending adoption. Application of Critical Accounting Policies PPL's financial condition and results of operations are impacted by the methods, assumptions and estimates used in the application of critical accounting policies. The following accounting policies are particularly important to the financial condition or results of operations of PPL, and require estimates or other judgments of matters inherently uncertain. Changes in the estimates or other judgments included within these accounting policies could result in a significant change to the information presented in the Financial Statements (these accounting policies are also discussed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements). PPL's senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and the estimates and assumptions regarding them with its Audit Committee. In addition, PPL's senior management has reviewed the following disclosures regarding the application of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee. Effective January 1, 2009, PPL and its subsidiaries fully applied accounting guidance that provides a framework for measuring fair value. The fair value measurement concepts provided by this guidance are used within its financial statements where applicable. See Notes 1 and 17 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements. 1) Price Risk Management See "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" above and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. 2) Defined Benefits PPL and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor various defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans applicable to the majority of the employees of PPL and its subsidiaries. PPL and certain of its subsidiaries record an asset or liability to recognize the funded status of all defined benefit plans with an offsetting entry to OCI or regulatory assets for PPL Electric. Consequently, the funded status of all defined benefit plans is fully recognized on the Balance Sheets. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for additional information about the plans and the accounting for defined benefits. PPL makes certain assumptions regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. When accounting for defined benefits, delayed recognition in earnings of differences between actual results and expected or estimated results is a guiding principle. Annual net periodic defined benefit costs are recorded in current earnings based on estimated results. Any differences between actual and estimated results are recorded in OCI or regulatory assets for PPL Electric. These amounts in AOCI or regulatory assets are amortized to income over future periods. The delayed recognition allows for a smoothed recognition of costs over the working lives of the employees who benefit under the plans. The primary assumptions are: · Discount Rate - The discount rate is used in calculating the present value of benefits, which is based on projections of benefit payments to be made in the future. The objective in selecting the discount rate is to measure the single amount that, if invested at the measurement date in a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due. · Expected Return on Plan Assets - Management projects the long-term rates of return on plan assets based on historical performance, future expectations and periodic portfolio rebalancing among the diversified asset classes. These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs PPL records currently. · Rate of Compensation Increase - Management projects employees' annual pay increases, which are used to project employees' pension benefits at retirement. · Health Care Cost Trend Rate - Management projects the expected increases in the cost of health care. In selecting a discount rate for its U.S. defined benefit plans, PPL starts with an analysis of the expected benefit payment stream for its plans. This information is first matched against a spot-rate yield curve. A portfolio of 526 Aa-graded non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds, with a total amount outstanding in excess of $541 billion, serves as the base from which those with the lowest and highest yields are eliminated to develop the ultimate yield curve. The results of this analysis are considered together with other economic data and movements in various bond indices to determine the discount rate assumption. At December 31, 2009, PPL decreased the discount rate for its U.S. pension plans from 6.50% to 6.00% as a result of this assessment and decreased the discount rate for its other postretirement benefit plans from 6.45% to 5.81%. A similar process is used to select the discount rate for the U.K. pension plans, which uses an iBoxx British pounds sterling denominated corporate bond index as its base. At December 31, 2009, PPL decreased the discount rate for the U.K. pension plans from 7.47% to 5.55% as a result of this assessment. The expected long-term rates of return for PPL's U.S. defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans have been developed using a best-estimate of expected returns, volatilities and correlations for each asset class. PPL management corroborates these rates with expected long-term rates of return calculated by its independent actuary, who uses a building block approach that begins with a risk-free rate of return with factors being added such as inflation, duration, credit spreads and equity risk. Each plan's specific asset allocation is also considered in developing a reasonable return assumption. At December 31, 2009, PPL's expected return on plan assets remained at 8.00% for its U.S. pension plans and remained at 7.00% for its other postretirement benefit plans. The expected long-term rates of return for PPL's U.K. pension plans have been developed by WPD management with assistance from an independent actuary using a best-estimate of expected returns, volatilities and correlations for each asset class. For the U.K. plans, PPL's expected return on plan assets remained at 7.90% at December 31, 2009. In selecting a rate of compensation increase, PPL considers past experience in light of movements in inflation rates. At December 31, 2009, PPL's rate of compensation increase remained at 4.75% for its U.S. plans. For the U.K. plans, PPL's rate of compensation increase remained at 4.00% at December 31, 2009. In selecting health care cost trend rates, PPL considers past performance and forecasts of health care costs. At December 31, 2009, PPL's health care cost trend rates were 8.00% for 2010, gradually declining to 5.50% for 2016. A variance in the assumptions listed above could have a significant impact on accrued defined benefit liabilities or assets, reported annual net periodic defined benefit costs and OCI or regulatory assets for PPL Electric. While the charts below reflect either an increase or decrease in each assumption, the inverse of this change would impact the accrued defined benefit liabilities or assets, reported annual net periodic defined benefit costs and OCI or regulatory assets for PPL Electric by a similar amount in the opposite direction. The sensitivities below reflect an evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption and does not include income tax effects. At December 31, 2009, PPL had recorded the following defined benefit plan liabilities: Pension liabilities $ 1,290 Other postretirement benefit liabilities 197 The following chart reflects the sensitivities in the December 31, 2009 Balance Sheet associated with a change in certain assumptions based on PPL's primary defined benefit plans. Increase (Decrease) Actuarial assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit liabilities Impact on OCI Impact on regulatory assets Discount Rate (0.25)% $ 194 $ (163 ) $ 31 Rate of Compensation Increase 0.25% 26 (21 ) 5 Health Care Cost Trend Rate (a) 1.0% 12 (8 ) 4 (a) Only impacts other postretirement benefits. In 2009, PPL recognized net periodic defined benefit costs charged to operating expense of $70 million. This amount represents a $14 million increase from 2008. This increase in expense was primarily attributable to actual asset losses in 2008. As a result, the expected return on assets in 2009 was lower and amortization of gain/loss was impacted. The following chart reflects the sensitivities in the 2009 Statement of Income (excluding income tax effects) associated with a change in certain assumptions based on PPL's primary defined benefit plans. Actuarial assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit costs Discount Rate (0.25)% $ 7 Expected Return on Plan Assets (0.25)% 12 Rate of Compensation Increase 0.25% 3 Health Care Cost Trend Rate (a) 1.0% 2 (a) Only impacts other postretirement benefits. 3) Asset Impairment PPL performs impairment analyses for long-lived assets that are subject to depreciation or amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a long-lived asset's carrying value may not be recoverable. For these long-lived assets to be held and used, such events or changes in circumstances are: · a significant decrease in the market price of an asset; · a significant adverse change in the manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical condition; · a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; · an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset; · a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of losses or a forecast that demonstrates continuing losses; or · a current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For a long-lived asset to be held and used, an impairment is recognized when the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the asset is impaired, an impairment loss is recorded to adjust the asset's carrying value to its estimated fair value. Management must make significant judgments to estimate future cash flows including the useful lives of long-lived assets, the fair value of the assets and management's intent to use the assets. PPL considers alternate courses of action to recover the carrying value of a long-lived asset, and uses estimated cash flows from the "most likely" alternative to assess impairment whenever one alternative is clearly the most likely outcome. If no alternative is clearly the most likely, then a probability-weighted approach is used taking into consideration estimated cash flows from the alternatives. For assets tested for impairment as of the balance sheet date, the estimates of future cash flows used in that test consider the likelihood of possible outcomes that existed at the balance sheet date, including the assessment of the likelihood of a future sale of the assets. That assessment is not revised based on events that occur after the balance sheet date. Changes in assumptions and estimates could result in significantly different results than those identified and recorded in the financial statements. For a long-lived asset held for sale, an impairment exists when the carrying amount of the asset (disposal group) exceeds its fair value less cost to sell. If the asset (disposal group) is impaired, an impairment loss is recorded to adjust its carrying amount to its fair value less cost to sell. A gain is recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in excess of the cumulative impairment previously recognized. For determining fair value, quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value. However, when market prices are unavailable, PPL considers all valuation techniques appropriate in the circumstances and for which market participant inputs can be obtained. PPL has generally used discounted cash flows to estimate fair value, which incorporates market participant inputs when available. Discounted cash flows are calculated by estimating future cash flow streams and applying appropriate discount rates to determine the present value of the cash flow streams. In 2009, PPL recorded impairments of certain long-lived assets. See Note 17 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of impairments related to certain sulfur dioxide emission allowances and the Long Island generation business. PPL tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. PPL has determined its reporting units to be at or one level below its operating segments. PPL performs a goodwill impairment test annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the reporting unit may be greater than the unit's fair value. Additionally, goodwill is tested for impairment after a portion of goodwill has been allocated to a business to be disposed of. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a two-step approach. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step requires a calculation of the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill in a business combination. That is, the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is then compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The loss recognized cannot exceed the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. In 2009, PPL was not required to impair any goodwill. Management primarily used discounted cash flows, which required significant assumptions, to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit. A decrease in the forecasted cash flows of 10%, or an increase of the discount rate by 25 basis points, would not have resulted in an impairment of goodwill. Additionally, in 2009, PPL wrote off $3 million of goodwill allocated to discontinued operations. 4) Loss Accruals PPL accrues losses for the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations or circumstances involving uncertain or contingent future outcomes. For loss contingencies, the loss must be accrued if (1) information is available that indicates it is probable that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of the uncertain future events, and (2) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting guidance defines "probable" as cases in which "the future event or events are likely to occur." PPL does not record the accrual of contingencies that might result in gains, unless recovery is assured. PPL continuously assesses potential loss contingencies for environmental remediation, litigation claims, regulatory penalties and other events. The accounting aspects of estimated loss accruals include (1) the initial identification and recording of the loss, (2) the determination of triggering events for reducing a recorded loss accrual, and (3) the ongoing assessment as to whether a recorded loss accrual is sufficient. All three of these aspects require significant judgment by PPL's management. PPL uses its internal expertise and outside experts (such as lawyers and engineers), as necessary, to help estimate the probability that a loss has been incurred and the amount (or range) of the loss. No new significant loss accruals were recorded in 2009. In 2008, significant judgment was required by PPL's management to perform an assessment of the contingency related to the Montana hydroelectric litigation. In June 2008, PPL's management assessed the loss exposure related to the Montana hydroelectric litigation, given the June 2008 decision by the Montana First Judicial District Court (District Court). The District Court awarded compensation of approximately $34 million for the years 2000 through 2006, and approximately $6 million for 2007 as rent for the use of the State of Montana's streambeds by PPL Montana's hydroelectric facilities. The District Court also deferred the determination of compensation for 2008 and subsequent years to the Montana State Land Board (Land Board). In October 2008, PPL Montana filed an appeal of the decision to the Montana Supreme Court and a stay of judgment, including a stay of the Land Board's authority to assess compensation against PPL Montana for 2008 and future periods. Oral agreement of the case was held before the Montana Supreme Court in September 2009. As part of the preparation of its 2009 financial statements, PPL's management reassessed the loss exposure for the Montana hydroelectric litigation. PPL's management concluded, based on its assessment and after consultations with its trial counsel, that it has meritorious arguments on appeal for the years 2000 through 2006. PPL assessed the likelihood of a loss for these years as reasonably possible. However, PPL Montana has not recorded a loss accrual for these years, as the likelihood of a loss was not deemed probable. For 2007 and subsequent years, PPL's management believes that while it also has meritorious arguments, it is probable that its hydroelectric projects will be subject to annual estimated compensation ranging from $3 million to $6 million. Given that there was no single amount within that range more likely than any other, PPL Montana accrued $3 million for each of the years 2007 through 2009 for a total of $9 million. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information on this contingency. PPL has identified certain other events that could give rise to a loss, but that do not meet the conditions for accrual. Such events are disclosed, but not recorded, when it is "reasonably possible" that a loss has been incurred. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for disclosure of other potential loss contingencies that have not met the criteria for accrual. When an estimated loss is accrued, PPL identifies, where applicable, the triggering events for subsequently reducing the loss accrual. The triggering events generally occur when the contingency has been resolved and the actual loss is incurred, or when the risk of loss has diminished or been eliminated. The following are some of the triggering events that provide for the reduction of certain recorded loss accruals: · Allowances for uncollectible accounts are reduced when accounts are written off after prescribed collection procedures have been exhausted, a better estimate of the allowance is determined or underlying amounts are ultimately collected. · Environmental and other litigation contingencies are reduced when the contingency is resolved and PPL makes actual payments, a better estimate of the loss is determined or the loss is no longer considered probable. PPL reviews its loss accruals on a regular basis to assure that the recorded potential loss exposures are appropriate. This involves ongoing communication and analyses with internal and external legal counsel, engineers, operation management and other parties. 5) Asset Retirement Obligations PPL is required to recognize a liability for legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. The initial obligation should be measured at its estimated fair value. An equivalent amount should be recorded as an increase in the value of the capitalized asset and allocated to expense over the useful life of the asset. Until the obligation is settled, the liability should be increased, through the recognition of accretion expense in the income statement, for changes in the obligation due to the passage of time. A conditional ARO must be recognized when incurred if the fair value of the ARO can be reasonably estimated. In determining AROs, management must make significant judgments and estimates to calculate fair value. Fair value is developed using an expected present value technique based on assumptions of market participants that considers estimated retirement costs in current period dollars that are inflated to the anticipated retirement date and then discounted back to the date the ARO was incurred. Changes in assumptions and estimates included within the calculations of the fair value of AROs could result in significantly different results than those identified and recorded in the financial statements. Estimated ARO costs and settlement dates, which affect the carrying value of various AROs and the related assets, are reviewed periodically to ensure that any material changes are incorporated into the latest estimate of the obligations. At December 31, 2009, PPL had AROs totaling $426 million recorded on the Balance Sheet, of which $10 million is included in "Other current liabilities." Of the total amount, $348 million, or 82%, relates to PPL's nuclear decommissioning ARO. The most significant assumptions surrounding AROs are the forecasted retirement costs, the discount rates and the inflation rates. A variance in the forecasted retirement costs, the discount rates or the inflation rates could have a significant impact on the ARO liabilities. The following chart reflects the sensitivities related to PPL's nuclear decommissioning ARO liability as of December 31, 2009, associated with a change in these assumptions at the time of initial recognition. There is no significant change to the annual depreciation expense of the ARO asset or the annual accretion expense of the ARO liability as a result of changing the assumptions. The sensitivities below reflect an evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption. Change in Assumption Impact on ARO Liability Retirement Cost 10%/(10)% $32/$(32) Discount Rate 0.25%/(0.25)% $(31)/$34 Inflation Rate 0.25%/(0.25)% $41/$(37) 6) Income Tax Uncertainties Significant management judgment is required in developing PPL's provision for income taxes primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns and the determination of deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowances. Significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of benefit recognized related to an uncertain tax position. PPL evaluates its tax positions following a two-step process. The first step requires an entity to determine whether, based on the technical merits supporting a particular tax position, it is more likely than not (greater than a 50% chance) that the tax position will be sustained. This determination assumes that the relevant taxing authority will examine the tax position and is aware of all the relevant facts surrounding the tax position. The second step requires an entity to recognize in the financial statements the benefit of a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition criterion. The benefit recognized is measured at the largest amount of benefit that has a likelihood of realization, upon settlement, that exceeds 50%. PPL's management considers a number of factors in assessing the benefit to be recognized, including negotiation of a settlement. On a quarterly basis, PPL reassesses its uncertain tax positions by considering information known at the reporting date. Based on management's assessment of new information, PPL may subsequently recognize a tax benefit for a previously unrecognized tax position, de-recognize a previously recognized tax position, or re-measure the benefit of a previously recognized tax position. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised by taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued and may materially impact PPL's financial statements in the future. The balance sheet classification of unrecognized tax benefits and the need for valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets also require significant management judgment. PPL classifies unrecognized tax benefits as current, to the extent management expects to settle an uncertain tax position, by payment or receipt of cash, within one year of the reporting date. Valuation allowances are initially recorded and reevaluated each reporting period by assessing the likelihood of the ultimate realization of a deferred tax asset. Management considers a number of factors in assessing the realization of a deferred tax asset, including the reversal of temporary differences, future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Any tax planning strategy utilized in this assessment must meet the recognition and measurement criteria utilized by PPL to account for an uncertain tax positions. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for the required disclosures. At December 31, 2009, it was reasonably possible that during the next 12 months the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase by as much as $34 million or decrease by up to $179 million for PPL. This change could result from subsequent recognition, derecognition and/or changes in the measurement of uncertain tax positions related to the creditability of foreign taxes, the timing and utilization of foreign tax credits and the related impact on alternative minimum tax and other credits, the timing and/or valuation of certain deductions, intercompany transactions and unitary filing groups. The events that could cause these changes are direct settlements with taxing authorities, litigation, legal or administrative guidance by relevant taxing authorities and the lapse of an applicable statute of limitation. 7) Regulatory Assets PPL's domestic electricity delivery business is subject to cost-based rate-regulation. As a result, PPL is required to reflect the effects of regulatory actions in its financial statements. PPL records assets that result from the regulated ratemaking process that may not be recorded under GAAP for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in regulated customer rates. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as changes in the applicable regulatory and political environments, the ability to recover costs through regulated rates, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, then asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of PP&E and amortization of regulatory assets. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, PPL had regulatory assets of $531 million and $763 million. All of PPL's regulatory assets are either currently being recovered under specific rate orders or represent amounts that will be recovered in future rates based upon established regulatory practices. Other Information PPL's Audit Committee has approved the independent auditor to provide audit and audit-related services and other services permitted by Sarbanes-Oxley and SEC rules. The audit and audit-related services include services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings, reviews of offering documents and registration statements, and internal control reviews. PPL ENERGY SUPPLY, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview PPL Energy Supply is an energy company with headquarters in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Refer to "Item 1. Business - Background" for descriptions of its reportable segments, which are Supply and International Delivery. Through its subsidiaries, PPL Energy Supply is primarily engaged in the generation and marketing of electricity in two key markets - the northeastern and western U.S. - and in the delivery of electricity in the U.K. PPL Energy Supply's overall strategy is to achieve disciplined growth in energy supply margins while limiting volatility in both cash flows and earnings and to achieve stable, long-term growth in its regulated international electricity delivery business through efficient operations and strong customer and regulatory relations. More specifically, PPL Energy Supply's strategy for its electricity generation and marketing business is to match energy supply with load, or customer demand, under contracts of varying lengths with creditworthy counterparties to capture profits while effectively managing exposure to energy and fuel price volatility, counterparty credit risk and operational risk. PPL Energy Supply's strategy for its U.K. electricity delivery business is to own and operate this business at the most efficient cost while maintaining high quality customer service and reliability. PPL Energy Supply faces several risks in its supply business, principally electricity and capacity wholesale price risk, fuel supply and price risk, electricity and fuel basis risk, power plant performance, evolving regulatory frameworks and counterparty credit risk. PPL Energy Supply attempts to manage these risks through various means. For instance, PPL Energy Supply operates a portfolio of generation assets that is diversified as to geography, fuel source, cost structure and operating characteristics. PPL Energy Supply expects to expand its generation capacity over the next several years through power uprates at certain of its existing power plants, and is continually evaluating the potential construction of new plants and the potential acquisition of existing plants or businesses. PPL Energy Supply is and will continue to remain focused on the operating efficiency and availability of its existing and any newly constructed or acquired power plants. In addition, PPL Energy Supply has executed and continues to pursue contracts of varying lengths for energy sales and fuel supply, while using other means to mitigate risks associated with adverse changes in the difference, or margin, between the cost to produce electricity and the price at which PPL Energy Supply sells it. PPL Energy Supply's future profitability will be affected by prevailing market conditions and whether PPL Energy Supply decides to, or is able to, continue to enter into long-term or intermediate-term power sales and fuel purchase agreements or renew its existing agreements. Currently, PPL Energy Supply's commitments for energy sales are satisfied through its own generation assets and supply purchased from third parties. PPL Energy Supply markets and trades around its physical portfolio of generating assets through integrated generation, marketing and trading functions. PPL Energy Supply has adopted financial and operational risk management programs that, among other things, are designed to monitor and manage its exposure to earnings and cash flow volatility related to changes in energy and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, counterparty credit quality and the operating performance of its generating units. The principal challenge that PPL Energy Supply faces in its international electricity delivery business is to maintain high quality customer service and reliability in a cost-effective manner. PPL Energy Supply's international electricity delivery business is rate-regulated. Accordingly, the business is subject to regulatory risk with respect to the costs that may not be recovered and investment returns that may not be collected through customer rates. PPL Energy Supply faces additional financial risks in conducting U.K. operations, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effect these rates have on the conversion of U.K. earnings and cash flows to U.S. dollars. PPL Energy Supply attempts to manage these financial risks through its risk management programs. In order to manage financing costs and access to credit markets, a key objective for PPL Energy Supply's business as a whole is to maintain a strong credit profile. PPL Energy Supply continually focuses on maintaining an appropriate capital structure and liquidity position. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for more information concerning these and other material risks PPL Energy Supply faces in its businesses. In May 2009, PPL Generation signed a definitive agreement to sell its Long Island generation business and related tolling agreements and expects the sale to close on or about February 26, 2010. In November 2009, PPL Maine completed the sale of the majority of its hydroelectric generation business. These businesses are included in the Supply segment. In 2007, PPL Energy Supply sold its regulated electricity delivery businesses in Latin America, which were included in the International Delivery segment. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The purpose of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" is to provide information concerning PPL Energy Supply's performance in implementing the strategies and managing the risks and challenges mentioned above. Specifically: · "Results of Operations" provides an overview of PPL Energy Supply's operating results in 2009, 2008 and 2007, including a review of earnings, with details of results by reportable segment. It also provides a brief outlook for 2010. · "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" provides an analysis of PPL Energy Supply's liquidity position and credit profile, including its sources of cash (including bank credit facilities and sources of operating cash flow) and uses of cash (including contractual obligations and capital expenditure requirements) and the key risks and uncertainties that impact PPL Energy Supply's past and future liquidity position and financial condition. This subsection also includes a listing and discussion of PPL Energy Supply's current credit ratings. · "Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other" provides an explanation of PPL Energy Supply's risk management programs relating to market risk and credit risk. · "Application of Critical Accounting Policies" provides an overview of the accounting policies that are particularly important to the results of operations and financial condition of PPL Energy Supply and that require its management to make significant estimates, assumptions and other judgments. The information provided in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with PPL Energy Supply's Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes. Terms and abbreviations are explained in the glossary. Dollars are in millions unless otherwise noted. Customer Choice - End of Transition Period In 1996, the Customer Choice Act was enacted to restructure Pennsylvania's electric utility industry in order to create retail access to a competitive market for generation of electricity. The Customer Choice Act required each Pennsylvania electric utility, to file a restructuring plan to "unbundle" its rates into separate generation, transmission and distribution components and to permit its customers to directly access alternate suppliers of electricity. Under the Customer Choice Act, regulated utilities were required to act as a PLR. As part of a settlement approved by the PUC, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric, a PPL EnergyPlus affiliate, entered into full requirements energy supply agreements at predetermined "capped" rates through 2009. In addition, the PUC authorized recovery of approximately $2.97 billion of competitive transition or "stranded" costs (generation-related costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market) from customers during an 11-year transition period. For PPL Electric, this transition period ended on December 31, 2009. With the expiration of the long-term power purchase agreements between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, PPL EnergyPlus now has multiple options as to how, and to whom, it sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants. These sales are based on prevailing market rates, as compared to pre-determined capped rates under the expired supply agreements with PPL Electric. PPL EnergyPlus has entered into various wholesale and retail contracts to sell this power and at this time has hedged almost 100% of expected 2010 baseload generation output. The expiration of the long-term supply agreements with PPL Electric also provides PPL Energy Supply the ability to adjust its exposure to fluctuations in demand that existed with supplying PPL Electric's PLR load. Entry of new generation suppliers into the Pennsylvania marketplace provides PPL Energy Supply the ability to provide generation supply to additional wholesale customers. Overall, these changes and the resulting level of hedged electricity prices are expected to have a positive impact on the financial condition, operating results and cash flows of PPL Energy Supply. PPL Electric's customers are no longer funding contributions to Susquehanna's NDT funds. PPL will continue to manage the NDT funds until the PPL Susquehanna plant is decommissioned. If the balance of the NDT funds is not adequate to cover decommissioning costs, PPL Susquehanna will be responsible to fund 90% of the shortfall. The Susquehanna nuclear units currently are licensed to operate until 2042 and 2044. Market Events In 2008, conditions in the financial markets became disruptive to the processes of managing credit risk, responding to liquidity needs, measuring derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value, and managing market risk. Bank credit capacity was reduced and the cost of renewing or establishing new credit facilities increased, thereby introducing uncertainties as to PPL Energy Supply's ability to enter into long-term energy commitments or reliably estimate the longer-term cost and availability of credit. In general, bank credit capacity has increased from the significantly constrained levels of 2008 and early 2009. In addition, the cost of renewing or establishing new credit facilities has improved when compared with the 2008 and early 2009 periods. Commodity Price Risk The contraction in wholesale energy market liquidity and accompanying decline in wholesale energy prices due to conditions in the financial and commodity markets significantly impacted PPL Energy Supply's earnings during the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009. See "Statement of Income Analysis - Domestic Gross Energy Margins - Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Region" for further discussion. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that PPL Energy Supply would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL Energy Supply maintains credit policies and procedures to limit counterparty credit risk. Conditions in the financial and commodity markets have generally increased PPL Energy Supply's exposure to credit risk. See Notes 15, 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements, and "Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other - Credit Risk" for more information on credit risk. Liquidity Risk PPL Energy Supply expects to continue to have access to adequate sources of liquidity through operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and, from time to time, the issuance of capital market securities. PPL Energy Supply's ability to access capital markets may be impacted by conditions in the overall financial and capital markets, as well as conditions specific to the utility sector. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for an expanded discussion of PPL Energy Supply's liquidity position and a discussion of its forecasted sources of cash. Valuations in Inactive Markets Conditions in the financial markets have generally made it difficult to determine the fair value of certain assets and liabilities in inactive markets. Management has reviewed the activity in the energy and financial markets in which PPL Energy Supply transacts, concluding that all of these markets were active at December 31, 2009, with the exception of the market for auction rate securities. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements and "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - - Auction Rate Securities" for a discussion of these investments. Securities Price Risk Declines in the market price of debt and equity securities result in unrealized losses that reduce the asset values of PPL Energy Supply's investments in its defined benefit plans and NDT funds. Both the defined benefit plans and the NDT funds earned positive returns in the second half of 2009, thereby recovering a portion of the negative returns incurred in 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. PPL Energy Supply actively monitors the performance of the investments held in its defined benefit plans and NDT funds and periodically reviews the funds' investment allocations. See "Financial Condition - Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other - NDT Funds - Securities Price Risk" for additional information on securities price risk. PPL Energy Supply's subsidiaries sponsor various defined benefit plans and participate in and are allocated costs from defined benefit plans sponsored by PPL. Determination of the funded status of defined benefit plans, contribution requirements and net periodic defined benefit costs for future years are subject to changes in various assumptions, in addition to the actual performance of the assets in the plans. See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Defined Benefits" for a discussion of the assumptions and sensitivities regarding those assumptions. The Economic Stimulus Package The Economic Stimulus Package was intended to stimulate the U.S. economy through federal tax relief, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social stimulus provisions, domestic spending for education, health care and infrastructure, including the energy sector. A portion of the benefits included in the Economic Stimulus Package are offered in the form of loan fee reductions, expanded loan guarantees and secondary market incentives, including delayed recognition for tax purposes of income related to the cancellation of certain types of debt. See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the applicability to the purchase of notes by PPL Energy Supply. Funds from the Economic Stimulus Package have been allocated to various federal agencies, such as the DOE, and provided to state agencies through block grants. The DOE has made awards of the funds for smart grid, efficiency-related and renewable energy programs. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has also made awards for funding certain energy projects, including solar projects. As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, PPL Energy Supply has reconsidered and decided to pursue its Holtwood expansion project in view of the tax incentives and potential loan guarantees for renewable energy projects contained in the Economic Stimulus Package. PPL Energy Supply has applied for DOE loan guarantees for the Holtwood expansion project and, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, for the Rainbow redevelopment project. Results of Operations PPL Energy Supply presents tables analyzing changes in amounts between periods within "Segment Results" and "Statement of Income Analysis" on a constant U.K. foreign currency exchange rate basis, where applicable, in order to isolate the impact of the change in the exchange rate on the item being explained. Results computed on a constant U.K. foreign currency exchange rate basis are calculated by translating current year results at the prior year weighted-average foreign currency exchange rate. Earnings Net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply was: 2009 2008 2007 $ 246 $ 768 $ 1,205 The changes in net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply from year to year were, in part, due to several special items that management considers significant. Details of these special items are provided within the review of each segment's earnings. The year-to-year changes in significant earnings components, including domestic gross energy margins by region and significant income statement line items, are explained in the "Statement of Income Analysis." PPL Energy Supply's earnings beyond 2009 are subject to various risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1A. Risk Factors," the rest of this Item 7 and Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and factors that may impact PPL Energy Supply's future earnings. Segment Results Net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply by segment was: 2009 2008 2007 Supply $ 3 $ 478 $ 595 International Delivery 243 290 610 Total $ 246 $ 768 $ 1,205 Supply Segment The Supply segment primarily consists of the domestic energy marketing and trading activities, as well as the generation and development operations of PPL Energy Supply. In December 2009, PPL Maine sold its 8.33% ownership interest in Wyman Unit 4. In November 2009, PPL Maine completed the sale of the majority of its hydroelectric generation business. In May 2009, PPL Generation signed a definitive agreement to sell its Long Island generation business and expects the sale to close on or about February 26, 2010. In August 2007, PPL Energy Supply completed the sale of its domestic telecommunication operations. See Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The Supply segment results reflect the classification of the Long Island generation business, the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business, and the 8.33% ownership interest in Wyman Unit 4, as Discontinued Operations. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Supply segment net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply was: 2009 2008 2007 Energy revenues (a) $ 5,037 $ 5,200 $ 3,389 Energy-related businesses 379 478 723 Total operating revenues 5,416 5,678 4,112 Fuel and energy purchases (a) 3,679 3,215 1,575 Other operation and maintenance 927 884 753 Depreciation 210 180 152 Taxes, other than income 29 20 31 Energy-related businesses 372 464 740 Total operating expenses 5,217 4,763 3,251 Other Income - net (b) 48 45 83 Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 18 36 3 Interest Expense (c) 185 169 106 Income Taxes 27 290 249 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (13 ) 15 12 Net Income 4 480 598 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 1 2 3 Net Income Attributable to PPL Energy Supply $ 3 $ 478 $ 595 (a) Includes impact from energy-related economic activity. See "Commodity Price Risk (Non-trading) - Economic Activity" in Note 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Includes interest income from affiliates. (c) Includes interest expense with affiliate. The after-tax changes in net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply between these periods were due to the following factors. 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Eastern U.S. non-trading margins $ (3 ) $ (62 ) Western U.S. non-trading margins 20 5 Net energy trading margins 81 (95 ) Energy-related businesses (4 ) (4 ) Other operation and maintenance (32 ) 12 Depreciation (18 ) (16 ) Taxes, other than income (5 ) 6 Other income - net (a) (4 ) (21 ) Interest expense (b) (9 ) (38 ) Income taxes (24 ) (61 ) Discontinued operations (Note 9) (9 ) 3 Other 1 2 Special items (469 ) 152 $ (475 ) $ (117 ) (a) Includes interest income from affiliates. (b) Includes interest expense with affiliate. · See "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" for an explanation of non-trading margins and net energy trading margins. · Other operation and maintenance expenses increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to increased payroll-related costs, higher contractor-related costs and other costs at PPL Energy Supply's generation plants. · Depreciation expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to the scrubbers at Brunner Island and Montour and the portions of the Susquehanna uprate projects that were placed in service in 2008 and 2009. Depreciation expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the Montour scrubbers and the Susquehanna uprate project that were placed in service in 2008. · Other income - net decreased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to a decrease in earnings on nuclear plant decommissioning trust investments and lower gains on sales of real estate. · Interest expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to increased interest on long-term debt resulting from new issuances. · Income taxes increased in 2009 compared with 2008, in part due to lower domestic manufacturing deductions in 2009. Income taxes increased in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the loss of synfuel tax credits as the projects ceased operation at the end of 2007. · Special items decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a $476 million after-tax change in energy-related economic activity. The change is primarily the result of certain power and gas cash flow hedges failing hedge effectiveness testing in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, as well as the first quarter of 2009. Hedge accounting is not permitted for the quarter in which this occurs and, accordingly, the entire change in fair value for the periods that failed was recorded to the income statement. However, these transactions were not dedesignated as hedges, as prospective regression analysis demonstrated that these hedges are expected to be highly effective over their term. For 2008, an after-tax gain of $298 million was recognized in earnings as a result of these hedge failures. During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, fewer power and gas cash flow hedges failed hedge effectiveness testing; therefore, a portion of the previously recognized unrealized gains recorded in the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 associated with these hedges were reversed. For 2009, after-tax losses of $215 million were recognized in earnings. The following after-tax amounts, which management considers special items, also impacted the Supply segment's earnings. 2009 2008 2007 Energy-related economic activity (Note 18) $ (225 ) $ 251 $ 32 Sales of assets Long Island generation business (a) (33 ) Interest in Wyman Unit 4 (Note 9) (4 ) Majority of Maine hydroelectric generation business (Note 9) 22 Domestic telecommunication operations (Note 8) (23 ) Impairments Impacts from emission allowances (b) (19 ) (25 ) Other asset impairments (c) (4 ) (15 ) Adjustments - NDT investments (d) (17 ) Transmission rights (e) (13 ) Workforce reduction (Note 12) (6 ) (1 ) (4 ) Other Change in tax accounting method related to repairs (Note 5) (21 ) Montana hydroelectric litigation (Note 14) (3 ) Synthetic fuel tax adjustment (Note 14) (13 ) Montana basin seepage litigation (Note 14) (5 ) Off-site remediation of ash basin leak (Note 14) 1 Settlement of Wallingford cost-based rates (f) 33 PJM billing dispute (1 ) Total $ (293 ) $ 176 $ 24 (a) Consists primarily of the initial impairment charge recorded in June 2009 when this business was classified as held for sale. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the anticipated sale. (b) 2009 primarily consists of a pre-tax charge of $37 million related to sulfur dioxide emission allowances. See Note 17 to the Financial Statements for additional information. 2008 consists of charges related to annual nitrogen oxide allowances and put options. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) 2008 primarily consists of a pre-tax charge of $22 million related to the cancellation of the Holtwood hydroelectric expansion project. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information. (d) Represents other-than-temporary impairment charges on securities, including reversals of previous impairments when previously impaired securities were sold. (e) See "Other Operation and Maintenance" for more information on the $23 million pre-tax impairment recorded in 2007. (f) In 2003, PPL Wallingford and PPL EnergyPlus sought from the FERC cost-based payments based upon the RMR status of four units at the Wallingford, Connecticut generating facility. In 2007, as a result of a settlement agreement, PPL Energy Supply recognized $55 million of revenue and $4 million of interest income. 2010 Outlook Excluding special items, PPL Energy Supply projects higher earnings from its Supply segment in 2010 compared with 2009, due to growth in energy margins. The forecast for growth in energy margins is based on hedged power and fuel prices as well as established capacity prices in PJM. These positive factors are expected to be partially offset by higher depreciation, financing costs and operation and maintenance expenses. International Delivery Segment The International Delivery segment consists primarily of the electricity distribution operations in the U.K. In 2007, PPL Energy Supply completed the sale of its Latin American businesses. In 2008, the International Delivery segment recognized income tax benefits and miscellaneous expenses in Discontinued Operations in connection with the dissolution of certain Latin American holding companies. In 2009, the International Delivery segment recognized $24 million of income tax expense in Discontinued Operations related to a correction of the calculation of tax bases of the Latin American businesses sold in 2007. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. The International Delivery segment results reflect the classification of its Latin American businesses as Discontinued Operations. International Delivery segment net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply was: 2009 2008 2007 Utility revenues $ 684 $ 824 $ 863 Energy-related businesses 32 33 37 Total operating revenues 716 857 900 Other operation and maintenance 140 186 252 Depreciation 115 134 147 Taxes, other than income 57 66 67 Energy-related businesses 16 14 17 Total operating expenses 328 400 483 Other Income - net (11 ) 17 26 Interest Expense 87 144 183 Income Taxes 20 45 (43 ) Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations (27 ) 5 313 Net Income 243 290 616 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 6 Net Income Attributable to PPL Energy Supply $ 243 $ 290 $ 610 The after-tax changes in net income attributable to PPL Energy Supply between these periods were due to the following factors. 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 U.K. Delivery margins $ 17 $ 12 Other operating expenses 7 22 Other income – net (4 ) (7 ) Depreciation (4 ) 4 Interest expense 28 5 Income taxes 24 24 Foreign currency exchange rates (69 ) (14 ) Gain on transfer of equity investment (5 ) Other (4 ) (3 ) Discontinued Operations (Note 9) (5 ) (49 ) U.S. interest expense 17 U.S. income taxes 1 (32 ) Gain (loss) on economic hedges (Note 15) (12 ) 10 Other 2 6 Special items (28 ) (310 ) $ (47 ) $ (320 ) · Lower U.K. other operating expenses in 2008 compared with 2007, were primarily due to lower compensation and lower pension costs. · Lower U.K. interest expense in 2009 compared with 2008, was primarily due to lower inflation rates on U.K. Index-linked Senior Unsecured Notes and lower debt balances. · Lower U.K. income taxes in 2009 compared with 2008, were primarily due to HMRC's determination related to the valuation of a business activity sold in 1999 and to the deductibility of foreign currency exchange losses, partially offset by the items in 2008 mentioned below. Lower U.K. income taxes in 2008 compared with 2007, were primarily due to HMRC's determination related to deductibility of imputed interest on a loan from Hyder and a change in tax law that included the phase-out of tax depreciation on industrial buildings over a four-year period. · Changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted U.K. earnings for both periods. The weighted-average exchange rates for the British pound sterling were approximately $1.53 in 2009, $1.91 in 2008 and $2.00 in 2007. · Higher U.S. income taxes in 2008 compared with 2007, was primarily due to the change in a U.S. income tax reserve resulting from the lapse in 2007 of an applicable statute of limitations. The following after-tax amounts, which management considers special items, also impacted the International Delivery segment's earnings. 2009 2008 2007 Foreign currency-related economic hedges - unrealized impacts (Note 18) $ 1 Sales of assets Latin American businesses (Note 9) (27 ) $ 259 Impairments (1 ) Workforce reduction (Note 12) (2 ) $ (1 ) (4 ) Other Change in U.K. tax rate (Note 5) 54 Total $ (29 ) $ (1 ) $ 309 2010 Outlook Excluding special items, PPL Energy Supply projects lower earnings from its International Delivery segment in 2010 compared with 2009, as a result of higher income taxes, higher operation and maintenance expenses and higher financing costs. These negative factors are expected to be partially offset by higher electricity delivery margins and a more favorable currency exchange rate. In December 2009, Ofgem completed its rate review for the five-year period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015. Ofgem allowed WPD an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 6.9% in each of the five years. The revenue increase includes reimbursement to electricity distributors for higher operating and capital costs to be incurred. Also, Ofgem set the weighted average cost of capital at 4.7%, which includes pre-tax debt and post-tax equity costs and excludes adjustments for inflation, for all distribution companies. This is a 0.8% decrease from the previous regulatory period. Additionally, Ofgem has established strong incentive mechanisms to provide companies significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability or customer service. Statement of Income Analysis -- Domestic Gross Energy Margins Non-GAAP Financial Measure The following discussion includes financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as a non-GAAP financial measure, "Domestic Gross Energy Margins." The presentation of "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" is intended to supplement the investor's understanding of PPL Energy Supply's domestic non-trading and trading activities by combining applicable income statement line items and related adjustments to calculate a single financial measure. PPL Energy Supply believes that "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" are useful and meaningful to investors because they provide them with the results of PPL Energy Supply's domestic non-trading and trading activities as another criterion in making their investment decisions. PPL Energy Supply's management also uses "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" in measuring certain corporate performance goals used in determining variable compensation. Other companies may use different measures to present the results of their non-trading and trading activities. Additionally, "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" are not intended to replace "Operating Income," which is determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of overall operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation between "Operating Income" and "Domestic Gross Energy Margins" as defined by PPL Energy Supply. 2009 2008 2007 Operating Income (a) $ 587 $ 1,372 $ 1,278 Adjustments: Utility (a) (684 ) (824 ) (863 ) Energy-related businesses, net (b) (23 ) (33 ) (3 ) Other operation and maintenance (a) 1,067 1,070 1,005 Depreciation (a) 325 314 299 Taxes, other than income (a) 86 86 98 Revenue adjustments (c) 293 (1,032 ) 223 Expense adjustments (c) 80 611 (213 ) Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 1,824 (a) As reported on the Statements of Income. (b) Amount represents the net of "Energy-related businesses" revenue and expense as reported on the Statements of Income. (c) The components of these adjustments are detailed in the tables below. The following tables provide the income statement line items and other adjustments that comprise domestic gross energy margins. 2009 2008 Change Revenue Wholesale energy marketing (a) $ 3,062 $ 3,344 $ (282 ) Wholesale energy marketing to affiliate (a) 1,806 1,826 (20 ) Unregulated retail electric and gas (a) 152 151 1 Net energy trading margins (a) 17 (121 ) 138 Revenue adjustments (b) Miscellaneous wholesale energy marketing to affiliate (12 ) (14 ) 2 Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) 274 (1,061 ) 1,335 Gains from sale of emission allowances (d) 2 6 (4 ) Revenues from Supply segment discontinued operations (e) 29 37 (8 ) Total revenue adjustments 293 (1,032 ) 1,325 5,330 4,168 1,162 Expense Fuel (a) 931 1,084 (153 ) Energy purchases (a) 2,678 2,023 655 Energy purchases from affiliate (a) 70 108 (38 ) Expense adjustments (b) Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (109 ) (632 ) 523 Other 29 21 8 Total expense adjustments (80 ) (611 ) 531 3,599 2,604 995 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 167 2008 2007 Change Revenue Wholesale energy marketing (a) $ 3,344 $ 1,436 $ 1,908 Wholesale energy marketing to affiliate (a) 1,826 1,810 16 Unregulated retail electric and gas (a) 151 102 49 Net energy trading margins (a) (121 ) 41 (162 ) Revenue adjustments (b) Miscellaneous wholesale energy marketing to affiliate (14 ) (15 ) 1 Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (1,061 ) 145 (1,206 ) Gains from sale of emission allowances (d) 6 109 (103 ) RMR revenues (52 ) 52 Revenues from Supply segment discontinued operations (e) 37 36 1 Total revenue adjustments (1,032 ) 223 (1,255 ) 4,168 3,612 556 Expense Fuel (a) 1,084 890 194 Energy purchases (a) 2,023 529 1,494 Energy purchases from affiliate (a) 108 156 (48 ) Expense adjustments (b) Impact from energy-related economic activity (c) (632 ) 200 (832 ) Other 21 13 8 Total expense adjustments (611 ) 213 (824 ) 2,604 1,788 816 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,564 $ 1,824 $ (260 ) (a) As reported on the Statements of Income. (b) To include/exclude the impact of any revenues and expenses not associated with domestic gross energy margins, consistent with the way management reviews domestic gross energy margins internally. (c) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding economic activity. (d) Included in "Other operation and maintenance" on the Statements of Income. (e) Represents revenues associated with the Long Island generation business and the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Domestic Gross Energy Margins By Region Domestic gross energy margins are generated through PPL Energy Supply's non-trading and trading activities. PPL Energy Supply manages its non-trading energy business on a geographic basis that is aligned with its generation assets. 2009 2008 Change Non-trading Eastern U.S. $ 1,391 $ 1,396 $ (5 ) Western U.S. 323 289 34 Net energy trading 17 (121 ) 138 Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,731 $ 1,564 $ 167 2008 2007 Change Non-trading Eastern U.S. $ 1,396 $ 1,502 $ (106 ) Western U.S. 289 281 8 Net energy trading (121 ) 41 (162 ) Domestic gross energy margins $ 1,564 $ 1,824 $ (260 ) Eastern U.S. Eastern U.S. non-trading margins were $5 million lower in 2009 compared with 2008. This decrease was primarily due to lower margins on full-requirement sales contracts resulting from mild weather, decreased demand, and customer migration. Also contributing to the decrease were higher average baseload generation fuel costs of 7%, primarily due to higher coal prices. Partially offsetting these lower margins were net gains resulting from the settlement of economic positions associated with rebalancing PPL Energy Supply's portfolios to better align them with current strategies, higher capacity revenue, higher baseload generation output due to unplanned major outages in 2008, and a 2.2% increase in the PLR sales prices in accordance with the PUC Final Order. Eastern U.S. non-trading margins were $106 million lower in 2008 compared with 2007. This decrease was primarily due to higher fuel costs, up 16%, primarily due to higher coal prices. Also contributing to the decrease was lower baseload generation, down 4%, primarily due to the unplanned outages at the eastern coal-fired units and retirement of the Martins Creek coal-fired units in September 2007. Partially offsetting these lower margins were higher margins from the hedged sale of generation in the wholesale market and a 1.4% increase in PLR sales prices in accordance with the PUC Final Order. Western U.S. Western U.S. non-trading margins were $34 million higher in 2009 compared with 2008. This increase was primarily due to higher wholesale volumes of 6% and increased generation from the hydroelectric units of 5%. Western U.S. non-trading margins were $8 million higher in 2008 compared with 2007. This increase was primarily due to increased generation from the hydroelectric units of 2%. Net Energy Trading PPL Energy Supply enters into energy contracts to take advantage of market opportunities. As a result, PPL Energy Supply may at times create a net open position in its portfolio that could result in significant losses if prices do not move in the manner or direction anticipated. However, these trading activities are subject to risk management program limits that are designed to protect PPL Energy Supply from undue financial loss. The margins from these trading activities are reflected in the Statements of Income as "Net energy trading margins." These physical and financial contracts cover trading activity associated with electricity, emission allowances, uranium, FTRs, natural gas, and oil. Net energy trading margins increased by $138 million in 2009 compared with 2008. This increase consisted of $215 million of higher unrealized margins partially offset by $77 million of lower realized margins. These changes were primarily due to increased margins in the power, gas and oil trading positions resulting from unrealized trading losses in 2008 due to a dramatic decline in energy prices and a severe contraction of liquidity in the wholesale power markets. Net energy trading margins decreased by $162 million in 2008 compared with 2007. This decrease consists of $135 million of lower unrealized margins and $27 million of lower realized margins, both driven by significant decreases in power and gas prices in the second half of 2008. Utility Revenues The changes in utility revenues were attributable to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates $ (154 ) $ (42 ) U.K. electric delivery revenue 14 3 $ (140 ) $ (39 ) Higher U.K. electric delivery revenues for 2009 compared with 2008, excluding foreign currency exchange rate impacts, were primarily due to an increase in prices effective April 1, a revised estimate of network electricity losses, and favorable changes in customer mix. These increases were partially offset by lower volumes due to unfavorable economic conditions, including industrial customers scaling back on production, and a decrease in engineering and metering services performed for third parties. Energy-related Businesses Energy-related businesses contributed $10 million less to operating income in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to: · contributions from domestic energy services-related businesses decreasing by $6 million, primarily due to a decline in construction activity caused by the slowdown in the economy; and · contributions from U.K. energy-related businesses decreasing by $4 million, primarily due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Energy-related businesses contributed $30 million more to operating income in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase was primarily attributable to: · a $39 million impairment in 2007 of domestic telecommunication operations that were sold in 2007; and · an $11 million increase in contributions from domestic energy services-related businesses mainly due to increased construction activity; partially offset by · $11 million of lower pre-tax contributions from synfuel projects. This reflects a $77 million net gain recorded in 2007 on options purchased to hedge the risk associated with the phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits. This decrease was partially offset by $66 million less in operating losses from synfuel projects as the projects ceased operation at the end of 2007; and · $5 million less in contributions from the domestic telecommunication operations sold in 2007. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of domestic telecommunication assets. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the shutdown of the synfuel facilities in 2007. Other Operation and Maintenance The changes in other operation and maintenance expenses were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates $ (24 ) $ (8 ) Impairment of cancelled generation expansion project in 2008 (Note 8) (22 ) 22 Defined benefit costs - U.K. (Note 12) (16 ) (28 ) WPD recoverable engineering services (9 ) (17 ) Impairment and other charges - emission allowances (Notes 14 and 17) (9 ) 42 Montana basin seepage litigation (Note 14) (8 ) 8 Uncollectible accounts (8 ) 4 Trademark royalty fees from a PPL subsidiary (Note 15) (7 ) 9 WPD meter operator expenses (7 ) (6 ) Payroll-related costs 24 (6 ) Allocation of corporate service costs 16 (21 ) WPD distribution costs 15 7 Domestic and international workforce reductions (Note 12) 13 (10 ) Contractor-related expenses 11 (7 ) Defined benefit costs - U.S. (Note 12) 11 (3 ) Montana hydroelectric litigation (Note 14) 8 1 Other costs at fossil/hydroelectric stations 7 1 Other nuclear related expenses 7 (10 ) Lower gains on sales of emission allowances 4 103 Impairment of transmission rights (a) (23 ) Other - Domestic (4 ) 10 Other - U.K. (5 ) (3 ) $ (3 ) $ 65 (a) In 2007, Maine Electric Power Company (MEPCO), ISO New England and other New England transmission owners submitted a filing to the FERC seeking to roll the revenue requirement of the MEPCO transmission facilities into the regional transmission rates in New England and to change certain rules concerning the use of the transmission line for energy and capacity. PPL Energy Supply protested this proposal and recorded an impairment of the transmission rights based on their estimated fair value. Depreciation The increases in depreciation expense were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Additions to PP&E (a) $ 40 $ 37 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (25 ) (7 ) Extension of useful lives of certain WPD network assets in mid-2007 (Note 1) (13 ) Other (4 ) (2 ) $ 11 $ 15 (a) Primarily attributable to the completion of the Susquehanna generation uprate and the Montour scrubber projects in 2008 and the Brunner Island scrubber projects in 2009. Taxes, Other Than Income The changes in taxes, other than income were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Domestic property tax expense (a) $ 10 $ (7 ) U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (12 ) (3 ) Other 2 (2 ) $ $ (12 ) (a) The change in both periods was primarily due to a $7 million property tax credit recorded by PPL Montana in 2008. Other Income - net See Note 16 to the Financial Statements for details of other income. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments Other-than-temporary impairments decreased by $18 million in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to stronger investment returns caused by improved market conditions within the financial markets. Other-than-temporary impairments increased by $33 million in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to negative investment returns caused by the downturn in the financial markets in 2008. Interest Income from Affiliates Interest income from affiliates decreased by $12 million in 2009 compared with 2008, and decreased by $15 million in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to the decline in the average balance outstanding and the floating interest rate on the collateral deposit related to the PLR contract. The decrease in 2008 was the result of reduced average balances outstanding on notes receivable from affiliates and the floating interest rate on the collateral deposit related to the PLR contract. Interest Expense The changes in interest expense, which includes "Interest Expense with Affiliate," were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Inflation adjustment on U.K. Index-linked Senior Unsecured Notes $ (29 ) $ 6 U.K. foreign currency exchange rates (17 ) (8 ) Long-term debt interest expense (13 ) 21 Hedging activities (3 ) (4 ) Capitalized interest 12 (1 ) Short-term debt interest expense 6 8 Amortization of debt issuance costs 6 5 Other (3 ) (3 ) $ (41 ) $ 24 Income Taxes The changes in income taxes were due to: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Lower pre-tax book income $ (300 ) $ (6 ) Tax on foreign earnings (a) (43 ) (3 ) Synthetic fuel and other tax credits (b) (17 ) 72 Tax reserve adjustments (a) (c) (d) (2 ) 44 Tax return adjustments (d) 44 (16 ) Domestic manufacturing deduction 13 (2 ) U.K. Finance Act adjustments (e) 8 46 Other 9 (6 ) $ (288 ) $ 129 (a) During 2009, WPD recorded a $46 million foreign tax benefit (and a full tax reserve reflected in "Tax reserve adjustments") related to losses generated by restructuring. (b) The Section 29/45K synthetic fuel tax credits expired at the end of 2007. During 2008, PPL recorded a $13 million adjustment to its estimated 2007 fuel tax credits as a result of the IRS publishing the final 2007 inflation-adjusted credit in April 2008. (c) During 2007, PPL Energy Supply recorded a $35 million benefit as a result of the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. The expiration of applicable statues of limitations resulted in an $8 million benefit in 2008. Additionally, PPL Energy Supply recorded tax benefits of $27 million in 2009 for the settlement of a tax dispute and foreign currency exchange losses. (d) During 2009, PPL Energy Supply received consent from the IRS to change its method of accounting for certain expenditures for tax purposes. PPL Energy Supply deducted the resulting IRC Sec. 481 adjustment on its 2008 tax return and recorded a $21 million adjustment to federal and state income tax expense, which results from the reduction of federal income tax benefits, related to the domestic manufacturing deduction and a reduction of certain state tax benefits related to state net operating losses. During 2008, WPD recorded tax benefits of approximately $17 million from tax return adjustments that were fully reserved. (e) The U.K.'s Finance Act of 2008, enacted in July 2008, included a phase-out of tax depreciation on certain buildings. As a result, WPD recorded an $8 million deferred tax benefit during 2008 related to the reduction in its deferred tax liabilities. The U.K.'s Finance Act of 2007, enacted in July 2007, included a reduction in the U.K.'s statutory income tax rate. Effective April 1, 2008, the statutory income tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28%. As a result, WPD recorded a $54 million deferred tax benefit during 2007 related to the reduction in its deferred tax liabilities. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes. Discontinued Operations See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information related to: · the anticipated sale of the Long Island generation business; · the sale of the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business in 2009; · the sale of the 8.33% interest in Wyman Unit 4 in 2009; and · the sale of the Latin American businesses in 2007 and the substantial dissolution of the remaining holding companies in 2008. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources PPL Energy Supply expects to continue to have adequate liquidity available through operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents and its credit facilities. Additionally, subject to market conditions, PPL Energy Supply currently plans to access debt capital markets in 2010. PPL Energy Supply's cash flows from operations and access to cost-effective bank and capital markets are subject to risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to: · changes in market prices for electricity; · changes in commodity prices that may increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount PPL Energy Supply receives from selling power; · operational and credit risks associated with selling and marketing products in the wholesale power markets; · potential ineffectiveness of the trading, marketing and risk management policy and programs used to mitigate PPL Energy Supply's risk exposure to adverse electricity and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and counterparty credit; · unusual or extreme weather that may damage PPL Energy Supply's international distribution facilities or affect energy sales to customers; · reliance on transmission and distribution facilities that PPL Energy Supply does not own or control to deliver its electricity and natural gas; · unavailability of generating units (due to unscheduled or longer-than-anticipated generation outages, weather and natural disasters) and the resulting loss of revenues and additional costs of replacement electricity; · the ability to recover and the timeliness and adequacy of recovery of costs associated with international electricity delivery businesses; · costs of compliance with existing and new environmental laws and with new security and safety requirements for nuclear facilities; · any adverse outcome of legal proceedings and investigations with respect to PPL Energy Supply's current and past business activities; · deterioration in the financial markets that could make obtaining new sources of bank and capital markets funding more difficult and more costly; and · a downgrade in PPL Energy Supply's or its rated subsidiaries' credit ratings that could adversely affect their ability to access capital and increase the cost of credit facilities and any new debt. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further discussion of risks and uncertainties affecting PPL Energy Supply's cash flows. At December 31, PPL Energy Supply had the following: 2009 2008 2007 Cash and cash equivalents $ 245 $ 464 $ 355 Short-term investments (a) (b) 150 102 $ 245 $ 614 $ 457 Short-term debt $ 639 $ 584 $ 51 (a) 2008 amount represents tax-exempt bonds issued by the PEDFA in December 2008 on behalf of PPL Energy Supply and purchased by a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply upon issuance. Such bonds were refunded in April 2009. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for further discussion. (b) Includes $10 million of auction rate securities at December 31, 2007. See below for a discussion of auction rate securities. The changes in PPL Energy Supply's cash and cash equivalents position resulted from: 2009 2008 2007 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 1,413 $ 1,039 $ 1,094 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (551 ) (1,696 ) (305 ) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities (1,081 ) 779 (963 ) Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash and Cash Equivalents (13 ) 5 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (219 ) $ 109 $ (169 ) Auction Rate Securities PPL Energy Supply held auction rate securities with an aggregate par value of $20 million and $24 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Historically, an active market existed for such investments, and the auctions provided an opportunity for investors either to hold an investment at a periodically reset interest rate or to sell the investment at its par value for immediate liquidity. In early 2008, investor concerns about credit and liquidity in the financial markets, generally, as well as investor concerns over specific insurers that guarantee the credit of certain of the underlying securities, created uncertainty in the auction rate securities market and these securities generally failed to be remarketed through their established auction process. The auctions continue to fail and the resulting illiquidity continues to impact PPL Energy Supply's investment in auction rate securities. At December 31, 2008, PPL Energy Supply estimated that the fair value of its auction rate securities was $19 million, which is reflected in "Other investments" on the Balance Sheet and represented a temporary decline of $5 million from par value. In 2009, PPL Energy Supply liquidated $4 million of auction rate securities at par. At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply estimated that the fair value of its auction rate securities was equal to par value, which was $20 million and is reflected in "Other investments" on the Balance Sheet. PPL Energy Supply reversed the previously recorded temporary impairment. Because PPL Energy Supply intends and has the ability to hold these auction rate securities until they can be liquidated at par value, PPL Energy Supply believes that it does not have significant exposure to realize losses on these securities. Based upon the evaluation of available information, PPL Energy Supply believes these investments continue to be of high credit quality. Additionally, PPL Energy Supply does not anticipate having to sell these securities to fund operations. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of auction rate securities. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by 36%, or $374 million, in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily as a result of the return of $300 million in cash collateral from PPL Electric related to the long-term PLR energy supply agreements (which expired at the end of 2009); cash collateral received from counterparties; and the benefit of lower income tax payments due to the change in method of accounting for certain expenditures for tax purposes. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2009 compared with 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by 5%, or $55 million, in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily as a result of increased expenditures for fuel, primarily due to higher coal prices, lower realized net energy trading margins, driven by significant decreases in power and gas prices, higher interest paid, primarily due to higher debt levels in 2008, and cash flows provided by Latin America's operations in 2007 but not 2008, due to the sale of the Latin American businesses in 2007. The decreases to cash provided by operating activities resulting from these items were partially offset by higher revenues, due primarily to the hedged sale of generation in the wholesale market, increased sales volumes to PPL Electric under the PLR contracts to support the PLR load and a 1.4% increase in PLR sales prices, as well as less U.S. income tax payments, primarily as a result of a refund received in 2008, and operating losses incurred in 2007 in connection with synfuel projects that ceased operation at the end of 2007. A significant portion of PPL Energy Supply's operating cash flows is derived from its Supply segment baseload generation business activities. PPL Energy Supply employs a formal hedging program for its baseload generation fleet, the primary objective of which is to provide a reasonable level of near-term cash flow and earnings certainty over the next three years, while preserving upside potential if power prices increase over the medium term. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for further discussion. Based on its generation portfolio contracting practices (including related fuel purchases and commitments), PPL Energy Supply expects to achieve relatively stable cash flows related to baseload generation during the next three years, although, future cash flows from operating activities are expected to be influenced more by commodity prices than during the past nine years when long-term supply contracts were in place between PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric. As discussed in "Item 1. Business," PPL Energy Supply estimates that, on average, approximately 94% of its total expected annual generation output (which includes baseload and other generation) for 2010 is committed under power sales contracts. PPL Energy Supply has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2011 and beyond. PPL Energy Supply's contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity and fuel often require cash collateral or other credit enhancements, or reductions or terminations of a portion of the entire contract through cash settlement, in the event of a downgrade of PPL Energy Supply's or its subsidiary's credit ratings or adverse changes in market prices. For example, in addition to limiting its trading ability, if PPL Energy Supply's or its subsidiary's ratings were lowered to below "investment grade" and there was a 10% adverse movement in energy prices, PPL Energy Supply estimates that, based on its December 31, 2009 positions, it would have had to post additional collateral of approximately $291 million, compared with $815 million at December 31, 2008. PPL Energy Supply has in place risk management programs that are designed to monitor and manage its exposure to volatility of cash flows related to changes in energy and fuel prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, counterparty credit quality and the operating performance of its generating units. Investing Activities The primary use of cash in investing activities is capital expenditures. See "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for detail regarding capital expenditures in 2009 and projected expenditures for the years 2010 through 2012. Net cash used in investing activities decreased 68%, or $1.1 billion in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily as a result of a change of $371 million from restricted cash and cash equivalents, a change of $249 million from purchases and sales of other investments, a change of $244 million from purchases and sales of intangible assets, a decrease of $207 million in capital expenditures and $81 million of proceeds received in 2009 from the sale of the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business. See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of restricted cash and cash equivalents and Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the purchase and sale by a subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply and Note 9 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of the majority of the Maine hydroelectric generation business. Net cash used in investing activities increased 456%, or $1.4 billion, in 2008 compared with 2007, as PPL Energy Supply received aggregate proceeds of $898 million from the sale of its Latin American businesses and telecommunication operations in 2007, which are discussed in Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, there was a change of $329 million from purchases and sales of other investments, a change of $352 million from purchases and sales of intangible assets, and an increase of $42 million in the amount of cash and cash equivalents that became restricted. The increase in cash used in investing activities from the above items was partially offset by a decrease of $217 million in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion in 2009 compared with $779 million of net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 and net cash used in financing activities of $963 million in 2007. The change from 2008 to 2009 primarily reflects no issuances of long-term debt in 2009, reduced contributions from Member, increased distributions to Member and less short-term borrowings in 2009. The change from 2007 to 2008 primarily reflects increased issuances and lower retirements of long-term debt, reduced distributions to and contributions from Member and increased short-term borrowings in 2008. In 2009, cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $943 million in distributions to Member and net debt retirements of $177 million, partially offset by $50 million in contributions from Member. In 2008, cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of net debt issuances of $1.1 billion and $421 million in contributions from Member, partially offset by $750 million in distributions to Member. In 2007, cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of net debt retirements of $180 million and $1.5 billion of distributions to Member, partially offset by $700 million in contributions from Member. See "Forecasted Sources of Cash" for a discussion of PPL Energy Supply's plans to issue debt securities, as well as a discussion of credit facility capacity available to PPL Energy Supply. Also see "Forecasted Uses of Cash" for information regarding maturities of PPL Energy Supply's long-term debt. PPL Energy Supply's debt financing activity in 2009 was: Issuances Retirements PPL Energy Supply Senior Unsecured Notes (a) $ (220 ) WPD short-term debt (net change) $ 43 Total $ 43 $ (220 ) Net decrease $ (177 ) (a) In March 2009, PPL Energy Supply paid $220 million, plus accrued interest, to complete tender offers to purchase up to $250 million aggregate principal amount of certain of its outstanding senior notes in order to reduce future interest expense. Under the Economic Stimulus Package, PPL will be permitted to defer recognition of income related to the extinguishment of these notes for tax purposes. No amounts will be included in taxable income for the first five years. Beginning in 2014, income related to the extinguishment of these notes will be included in taxable income ratably over five years. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding PPL Energy Supply's financing activities in 2009. Forecasted Sources of Cash PPL Energy Supply expects to continue to have significant sources of cash available in the near term, including various credit facilities, operating leases and contributions from Member. Additionally, PPL Energy Supply expects to have access to debt capital markets and currently plans to issue up to $300 million and £400 million in long-term debt securities in 2010, subject to market conditions. Credit Facilities At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply's total committed borrowing capacity under credit facilities and the use of this borrowing capacity were: Committed Capacity Borrowed Letters of Credit Issued (a) Unused Capacity PPL Energy Supply Domestic Credit Facilities (b) $ 4,125 $ 285 $ 662 $ 3,178 WPDH Limited Credit Facility (c) ₤ 150 ₤ 132 n/a ₤ 18 WPD (South West) Credit Facilities (d) 214 60 ₤ 3 151 Total WPD Credit Facilities (e) ₤ 364 ₤ 192 ₤ 3 ₤ 169 (a) The borrower under each of these facilities has a reimbursement obligation to the extent any letters of credit are drawn upon. (b) PPL Energy Supply has the ability to borrow $3.6 billion under its credit facilities. Such borrowings generally bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's public debt rating. PPL Energy Supply also has the capability to cause the lenders to issue up to $3.9 billion of letters of credit under these facilities, which issuances reduce available borrowing capacity. Under certain conditions, PPL Energy Supply may request that the capacity of one of its facilities be increased by up to $500 million. These credit facilities contain a financial covenant requiring debt to total capitalization to not exceed 65%. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, PPL Energy Supply's consolidated debt to total capitalization percentages, as calculated in accordance with its credit facilities, were 46% and 44%. The credit facilities also contain standard representations and warranties that must be made for PPL Energy Supply to borrow under them. The commitments under PPL Energy Supply's domestic credit facilities are provided by a diverse bank group, with no one bank and its affiliates providing an aggregate commitment of more than 16% of the total committed capacity. The committed capacity expires as follows: $600 million in 2010, $300 million in 2011 and $3.2 billion in 2012. PPL Energy Supply intends to renew or replace the two credit facilities that expire in 2010 in order to maintain its current total committed capacity level. (c) Borrowings under WPDH Limited's credit facility bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, depending upon the company's public debt rating. This credit facility contains financial covenants that require WPDH Limited to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 times consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and a RAB that exceeds total net debt by the higher of an amount equal to 15% of total net debt or £150 million, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit facility. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, WPDH Limited's interest coverage ratios, as calculated in accordance with its credit facility, were 4.3 and 4.6. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, WPDH Limited's RAB, as calculated in accordance with the credit facility, exceeded its total net debt by £325 million, or 25%, and £385 million, or 31%. (d) WPD (South West) has two credit facilities: one under which it can make cash borrowings and another under which it has the capability to cause the lender to issue up to approximately £4 million of letters of credit. Borrowings bear interest at LIBOR-based rates plus a margin. The credit facility under which it can make cash borrowings contains financial covenants that require WPD (South West) to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 times consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization and total net debt not in excess of 85% of RAB, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit facility. At December 31, 2009, WPD (South West)'s interest coverage ratio, as calculated in accordance with its credit facility, was 5.3. At December 31, 2009, WPD (South West)'s total net debt, as calculated in accordance with the credit facility, was 67% of RAB. (e) The commitments under WPD's credit facilities are provided by eight banks, with no one bank providing more than 25% of the total committed capacity. The committed capacity of WPD's credit facilities expires as follows: £4 million in 2010, £210 million in 2012 and £150 million in 2013. WPD (South West) intends to renew its letter of credit facility that expires in 2010 in order for WPD to maintain its current total committed capacity level. At December 31, 2009, the unused capacity of WPD's credit facilities was approximately $276 million. In addition to the financial covenants noted in the table above, the credit agreements governing the credit facilities contain various other covenants. Failure to comply with the covenants after applicable grace periods could result in acceleration of repayment of borrowings and/or termination of the agreements. PPL Energy Supply monitors compliance with the covenants on a regular basis. At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply was in material compliance with these covenants. At this time, PPL Energy Supply believes that these covenants and other borrowing conditions will not limit access to these funding sources. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of PPL Energy Supply's credit facilities. Commercial Paper As discussed below under "Credit Ratings," S&P lowered its rating on PPL Energy Supply's commercial paper to A-3 from A-2 in January 2009. Since PPL Energy Supply did not plan to issue any commercial paper during 2009 and there was essentially no liquidity in commercial paper markets for paper with an A-3 rating, PPL Energy Supply closed its $500 million commercial paper program in January 2009 and requested that Moody's, S&P and Fitch each withdraw their ratings on its commercial paper program, which each rating agency subsequently did. PPL Energy Supply may reopen its commercial paper program in the future, depending on market conditions and credit ratings, to provide an additional financing source to fund its short-term liquidity needs, if and when necessary. Any future commercial paper issuances would be supported by PPL Energy Supply's credit facilities. Operating Leases PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries also have available funding sources that are provided through operating leases. PPL Energy Supply's subsidiaries lease office space, land, buildings and certain equipment. These leasing structures provide PPL Energy Supply additional operating and financing flexibility. The operating leases contain covenants that are typical for these agreements, such as maintaining insurance, maintaining corporate existence and timely payment of rent and other fees. PPL Energy Supply, through its subsidiary PPL Montana, leases a 50% interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2 and a 30% interest in Unit 3, under four 36-year, non-cancelable operating leases. These operating leases are not recorded on PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheets. The leases place certain restrictions on PPL Montana's ability to incur additional debt, sell assets and declare dividends. At this time, PPL Energy Supply believes that these restrictions will not limit access to these funding sources or cause acceleration or termination of the leases. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of other dividend restrictions related to WPD. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the operating leases. Long-Term Debt Securities and Contributions from Member Subject to market conditions, PPL Energy Supply currently plans to issue up to $300 million and £400 million in long-term debt securities in 2010. PPL expects to use the proceeds from these issuances for the repayment of short-term debt, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes. From time to time, as determined by its Board of Directors, PPL Energy Supply's Member, PPL Energy Funding, makes capital contributions to PPL Energy Supply. PPL Energy Supply uses these contributions for general corporate purposes. Forecasted Uses of Cash In addition to expenditures required for normal operating activities, such as purchased power, payroll, fuel and taxes, PPL Energy Supply currently expects to incur future cash outflows for capital expenditures, various contractual obligations, distributions to its Member and possibly the purchase or redemption of a portion of its debt securities. Capital Expenditures The table below shows PPL Energy Supply's actual spending for the year 2009 and current capital expenditure projections for the years 2010 through 2012. Actual Projected 2009 2010 2011 2012 Construction expenditures (a) (b) Generating facilities $ 361 $ 671 $ 673 $ 507 Transmission and distribution facilities 247 320 358 385 Environmental 178 63 19 99 Other 11 31 33 31 Total Construction Expenditures 797 1,085 1,083 1,022 Nuclear fuel 140 151 173 171 Total Capital Expenditures $ 937 $ 1,236 $ 1,256 $ 1,193 (a) Construction expenditures include capitalized interest, which is expected to be approximately $156 million for the years 2010 through 2012. (b) Includes expenditures for certain intangible assets. PPL Energy Supply's capital expenditure projections for the years 2010 through 2012 total approximately $3.7 billion. Capital expenditure plans are revised periodically to reflect changes in operational, market and regulatory conditions. This table includes projected costs related to the planned 239 MW of incremental capacity increases. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for information regarding the significant development projects. PPL Energy Supply plans to fund its capital expenditures in 2010 with cash on hand, cash from operations, contributions from Member and proceeds from the issuance of debt securities. Contractual Obligations PPL Energy Supply has assumed various financial obligations and commitments in the ordinary course of conducting its business. At December 31, 2009, the estimated contractual cash obligations of PPL Energy Supply were: Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years After 5 Years Long-term Debt (a) $ 4,992 $ 500 $ 1,037 $ 3,455 Interest on Long-term Debt (b) 4,497 $ 291 558 477 3,171 Operating Leases 968 108 216 223 421 Purchase Obligations (c) 5,896 1,459 1,680 867 1,890 Other Long-term Liabilities Reflected on the Balance Sheet under GAAP (d) (e) 80 62 18 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 16,433 $ 1,920 $ 2,972 $ 2,604 $ 8,937 (a) Reflects principal maturities only based on legal maturity dates. See Note 7 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of the remarketing feature related to PPL Energy Supply's 5.70% REset Put Securities, as well as discussion of variable-rate remarketable bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply. PPL Energy Supply does not have any significant capital lease obligations. (b) Assumes interest payments through maturity. The payments herein are subject to change, as payments for debt that is or becomes variable-rate debt have been estimated and payments denominated in British pounds sterling have been translated to U.S. dollars at a current foreign currency exchange rate. (c) The payments reflected herein are subject to change, as certain purchase obligations included are estimates based on projected obligated quantities and/or projected pricing under the contracts. Purchase orders made in the ordinary course of business are excluded from the amounts presented. The payments also include obligations related to nuclear fuel and the installation of the scrubbers, which are also reflected in the Capital Expenditures table presented above. (d) The amounts reflected represent WPD's contractual deficit pension funding requirements arising from an actuarial valuation performed in March 2007. The U.K. electricity regulator currently allows a recovery of a substantial portion of the contributions relating to the plan deficit; however, WPD cannot be certain that this will continue beyond the current and next review periods, which extend to March 31, 2015. Based on the current funded status of PPL Energy Supply's U.S. qualified pension plans, no cash contributions are required. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of expected contributions. (e) At December 31, 2009, total unrecognized tax benefits of $124 million were excluded from this table as PPL Energy Supply cannot reasonably estimate the amount and period of future payments. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Distributions to Member From time to time, as determined by its Board of Managers, PPL Energy Supply makes return of capital distributions to its Member. Purchase or Redemption of Debt Securities PPL Energy Supply will continue to evaluate purchasing or redeeming outstanding debt securities and may decide to take action depending upon prevailing market conditions and available cash. Credit Ratings Moody's, S&P and Fitch periodically review the credit ratings on the debt securities of PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries. Based on their respective independent reviews, the rating agencies may make certain ratings revisions or ratings affirmations. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the creditworthiness associated with an issuer and particular securities that it issues. The credit ratings of PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries are based on information provided by PPL Energy Supply and other sources. The ratings of Moody's, S&P and Fitch are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any securities of PPL Energy Supply or its subsidiaries. Such ratings may be subject to revisions or withdrawal by the agencies at any time and should be evaluated independently of each other and any other rating that may be assigned to the securities. A downgrade in PPL Energy Supply's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to capital markets. The following table summarizes the credit ratings of PPL Energy Supply and its rated subsidiaries at December 31, 2009: Moody's S&P Fitch (a) PPL Energy Supply (b) Issuer Rating BBB BBB Senior Unsecured Notes Baa2 BBB BBB Outlook STABLE Negative STABLE PPL Montana Pass-Through Certificates Baa3 BBB- BBB Outlook STABLE STABLE WPDH Limited Issuer Rating Baa3 BBB- BBB- Senior Unsecured Debt Baa3 BBB- BBB Short-term Debt A-3 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE WPD LLP Issuer Rating BBB Outlook POSITIVE WPD (South Wales) Issuer Rating BBB+ BBB+ Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB+ A- Short-term Debt A-2 F2 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE WPD (South West) Issuer Rating Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Senior Unsecured Debt Baa1 BBB+ A- Short-term Debt P-2 A-2 F2 Outlook STABLE Negative POSITIVE (a) All Issuer Ratings for Fitch are "Issuer Default Ratings." (b) Excludes Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds issued by the PEDFA on behalf of PPL Energy Supply, which are each currently supported by a letter of credit and are rated on the basis of the credit enhancement. In January 2009, S&P completed a review of PPL Energy Supply, upon which it revised its outlook to negative from stable and affirmed its BBB issuer rating. As a result of the negative outlook, S&P lowered PPL Energy Supply's commercial paper rating to A-3 from A-2. S&P stated in its press release that the revision in the outlook for PPL Energy Supply was based primarily on lower than expected cash flows for 2008 combined with concerns over further pressure on financial metrics in 2009. At the request of PPL Energy Supply, in the first quarter of 2009, Moody's, S&P and Fitch, each withdrew their commercial paper rating for PPL Energy Supply. In February 2009, S&P revised its outlook to negative from stable for each of WPDH Limited, WPD LLP, WPD (South Wales) and WPD (South West) and affirmed the issuer and short-term debt ratings of each of the entities. S&P stated in its press release that the revision in the outlook is a reflection of the change to PPL's outlook to negative from stable and is not a result of any change in WPD's stand-alone credit profile. In May 2009, Moody's completed a review of PPL Energy Supply and affirmed the Baa2 senior unsecured rating and stable outlook of PPL Energy Supply. At WPD's request, in September 2009, S&P withdrew its ratings for WPD LLP, since it did not have any securities outstanding. In October 2009, Fitch completed a review of PPL Energy Supply. As a result of that review, Fitch lowered the rating of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured notes to BBB from BBB+ and affirmed all other ratings of PPL Energy Supply. Fitch stated in its press release that the change in the rating of PPL Energy Supply's senior unsecured notes aligns such rating with the BBB Issuer Default Rating in a manner that is consistent with the approach Fitch applies to other competitive generators and also recognizes a lower valuation of PPL Energy Supply's power assets based on current and forward wholesale power prices. The rating also reflects Fitch's forecast of lower than previously expected improvement in PPL Energy Supply's earnings and cash flow in 2010 and 2011. Ratings Triggers WPD (South West)'s 1.541% Index-linked Notes due 2053 and 2056 and WPD (South Wales)'s 4.80436% Notes due 2037 may be put by the holders back to the issuer for redemption if the long-term credit ratings assigned to the notes by Moody's, S&P or Fitch are withdrawn by any of the rating agencies or reduced to a non-investment grade rating of Ba1 or BB+ in connection with a restructuring event. A restructuring event includes the loss of, or a material adverse change to, the distribution license under which WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) operate. These notes totaled £467 million (approximately $766 million) at December 31, 2009. PPL Energy Supply has various derivative and non-derivative contracts, including contracts for the sale and purchase of electricity and fuel, commodity transportation and storage, tolling agreements, and interest rate and foreign currency instruments, which contain provisions requiring PPL Energy Supply to post additional collateral, or permit the counterparty to terminate the contract, if PPL Energy Supply's credit rating were to fall below investment grade. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of "Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features," including a discussion of the potential additional collateral that would have been required for derivative contracts in a net liability position at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, if PPL Energy Supply's credit rating had been below investment grade, PPL Energy Supply would have been required to post an additional $298 million of collateral to counterparties for both derivative and non-derivative commodity and commodity-related contracts used in its generation, marketing and trading operations and interest rate and foreign currency contracts. Guarantees for Subsidiaries At times, PPL Energy Supply provides guarantees for financing arrangements to enable certain transactions for its consolidated affiliates. Some of the guarantees contain financial and other covenants that, if not met, would limit or restrict the consolidated affiliates' access to funds under these financing arrangements, require early maturity of such arrangements or limit the consolidated affiliates' ability to enter into certain transactions. At this time, PPL Energy Supply believes that these covenants will not limit access to relevant funding sources. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information about guarantees. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements PPL Energy Supply has entered into certain agreements that may contingently require payment to a guaranteed or indemnified party. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of these agreements. Risk Management - Energy Marketing & Trading and Other Market Risk See Notes 1, 17, and 18 to the Financial Statements for information about PPL Energy Supply's risk management objectives, valuation techniques and accounting designations. The forward-looking information presented below provides estimates of what may occur in the future, assuming certain adverse market conditions and model assumptions. Actual future results may differ materially from those presented. These disclosures are not precise indicators of expected future losses, but only indicators of possible losses under normal market conditions at a given confidence level. Commodity Price Risk (Non-trading) PPL Energy Supply segregates its non-trading activities into two categories: hedge activity and economic activity. Transactions that are accounted for as hedge activity qualify for hedge accounting treatment. The economic activity category includes transactions that address a specific risk, but were not eligible for hedge accounting or for which hedge accounting was not elected. This activity includes the changes in fair value of positions used to hedge a portion of the economic value of PPL Energy Supply's generation assets, load-following and retail activities. This economic activity is subject to changes in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., fuel and power). Although they do not receive hedge accounting treatment, these transactions are considered non-trading activity. The net fair value of economic positions at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was a net liability of $77 million and $52 million. See Note 18 for additional information on economic activity. To hedge the impact of market price volatility on PPL Energy Supply's energy-related assets, liabilities and other contractual arrangements, PPL EnergyPlus sells and purchases physical energy at the wholesale level under FERC market-based tariffs throughout the U.S. and enters into financial exchange-traded and over-the-counter contracts. PPL Energy Supply's non-trading commodity derivative contracts mature at various times through 2017. Within PPL's non-trading portfolio, the decision to enter into energy contracts is influenced by the expected value of PPL Energy Supply's generation. In determining the number of MWhs that are available to be sold forward, PPL Energy Supply first reduces the potential output by the amount of unavailable generation due to planned maintenance on a particular unit. The potential output is further reduced by the amount of MWhs that historically is not produced by a plant due to such factors as equipment breakage. Finally, the potential output of certain plants (such as peaking units) is reduced if their higher cost of production will not allow them to economically run during all hours. PPL Energy Supply's non-trading portfolio also includes full requirements energy contracts. The net obligation to serve these contracts changes minute-by-minute. Anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks are affected by expected load changes, regional economic drivers, customer shopping or migration and seasonal weather patterns. PPL Energy Supply analyzes historical on-peak and off-peak usage patterns, expected load changes, regional economic drivers, and weather patterns, among other factors, to determine monthly levels of electricity that best fits usage patterns to minimize earnings exposure. To satisfy its full requirements obligations, PPL Energy Supply generally enters into contracts to purchase unbundled products of electricity, capacity, RECs and other ancillary products. To a lesser extent, PPL Energy Supply reserves a portion of its generation for full requirements contracts that is expected to be the best match with anticipated usage patterns and energy peaks. The following chart sets forth the net fair value of PPL Energy Supply's non-trading commodity derivative contracts. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Gains (Losses) 2009 2008 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ 402 $ (305 ) Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 189 (49 ) Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 143 101 Changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques (a) 158 Other changes in fair value 546 497 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 1,280 $ 402 (a) Amount represents the reduction of valuation reserves related to capacity and FTR contracts upon the adoption of fair value accounting guidance. The following table segregates the net fair value of PPL Energy Supply's non-trading commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 based on whether the fair value was determined by prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments or other more subjective means. Net Asset (Liability) Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1-3 Years Maturity 4-5 Years Maturity in Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Source of Fair Value Prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments Prices based on significant other observable inputs $ 363 $ 736 $ 73 $ 1,172 Prices based on significant unobservable inputs (1 ) 13 30 $ 66 108 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ 362 $ 749 $ 103 $ 66 $ 1,280 PPL Energy Supply sells electricity, capacity and related services and buys fuel on a forward basis to hedge the value of energy from its generation assets. If PPL Energy Supply were unable to deliver firm capacity and energy or to accept the delivery of fuel under its agreements, under certain circumstances it could be required to pay liquidating damages. These damages would be based on the difference between the market price and the contract price of the commodity. Depending on price changes in the wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned power plant outages, transmission disruptions, nonperformance by counterparties (or their own counterparties) with which it has energy contracts and other factors could affect PPL Energy Supply's ability to meet its obligations, or cause significant increases in the market price of replacement energy. Although PPL Energy Supply attempts to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that it will be able to fully meet its firm obligations, that it will not be required to pay damages for failure to perform, or that it will not experience counterparty nonperformance in the future. Commodity Price Risk (Trading) PPL Energy Supply's trading contracts mature at various times through 2015. The following table sets forth changes in the net fair value of PPL Energy Supply's trading commodity derivative contracts. See Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information. Gains (Losses) 2009 2008 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the period $ (75 ) $ 16 Contracts realized or otherwise settled during the period 2 (18 ) Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 31 28 Changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques (a) 11 Other changes in fair value 36 (112 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ (6 ) $ (75 ) (a) In the fourth quarter of 2008, PPL Energy Supply refined its valuation approach for FTR and PJM basis positions, consistent with PPL Energy Supply's practice of pricing other less active trading points, resulting in changes in valuation techniques. PPL Energy Supply will reverse unrealized gains of approximately $1 million over the next three months as the transactions are realized. The following table segregates the net fair value of PPL Energy Supply's trading commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 based on whether the fair value was determined by prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments or other more subjective means. Net Asset (Liability) Maturity Less Than 1 Year Maturity 1-3 Years Maturity 4-5 Years Maturity in Excess of 5 Years Total Fair Value Source of Fair Value Prices quoted in active markets for identical instruments $ 1 $ 1 Prices based on significant other observable inputs (4 ) $ (5 ) $ 2 $ 1 (6 ) Prices based on significant unobservable inputs (1 ) (1 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period $ (4 ) $ (5 ) $ 2 $ 1 $ (6 ) VaR Models PPL Energy Supply utilizes a VaR model to measure commodity price risk in domestic gross energy margins for its non-trading and trading portfolios. VaR is a statistical model that attempts to estimate the value of potential loss over a given holding period under normal market conditions at a given confidence level. PPL Energy Supply calculates VaR using a Monte Carlo simulation technique based on a five-day holding period at a 95% confidence level. Given the company's conservative hedging program, PPL's non-trading VAR exposure is expected to be limited in the short term. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the VaR for PPL Energy Supply's portfolios using end-of-quarter results for the period was as follows. Trading VaR Non-Trading VaR 2009 2008 2009 2008 95% Confidence Level, Five-Day Holding Period Period End $ 3 $ 3 $ 8 $ 10 Average for the Period 4 10 9 14 High 8 22 11 20 Low 1 3 8 9 The trading portfolio includes all speculative positions, regardless of the delivery period. All positions not considered speculative are considered non-trading. PPL Energy Supply's non-trading portfolio includes PPL Energy Supply's entire portfolio, including generation, with delivery periods through the next 12 months. Both the trading and non-trading VaR computations exclude FTRs due to the absence of reliable spot and forward markets. The fair value of the FTR positions at December 31, 2009 was an unrealized loss of $3 million and consisted of the following. 2010 2011 Trading (a) Non-trading $ (2 ) $ (1 ) Total $ (2 ) $ (1 ) (a) The amount of trading FTR positions was less than $1 million at December 31, 2009. Interest Rate Risk PPL Energy Supply and its subsidiaries have issued debt to finance their operations, which exposes them to interest rate risk. Both PPL and PPL Energy Supply manage the interest rate risk of PPL Energy Supply by using various financial derivative instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in its debt portfolio, adjust the duration of its debt portfolio and lock in benchmark interest rates in anticipation of future financing, when appropriate. Risk limits under the risk management program are designed to balance risk exposure to volatility in interest expense and changes in the fair value of PPL Energy Supply's debt portfolio due to changes in the absolute level of interest rates. At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply's potential annual exposure to increased interest expense, based on a 10% increase in interest rates, was not significant, compared with $2 million at December 31, 2008. PPL Energy Supply is also exposed to changes in the fair value of its domestic and international debt portfolios. PPL Energy Supply estimated that a 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 would increase the fair value of its debt portfolio by $187 million, compared with $234 million at December 31, 2008. At December 31, PPL Energy Supply had the following interest rate hedges outstanding. 2009 2008 Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) (a) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Rates (b) Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) (a) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Rates (b) Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps (c) Cross-currency swaps (d) $ 302 $ 8 $ (41 ) $ 302 $ 54 $ (8 ) Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps (e) 50 3 (a) Includes accrued interest, if applicable. (b) Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability. (c) PPL and PPL Energy Supply utilize various risk management instruments to reduce PPL Energy Supply's exposure to the expected future cash flow variability of PPL Energy Supply's debt instruments. These risks include exposure to adverse interest rate movements for outstanding variable rate debt and for future anticipated financing. While PPL Energy Supply is exposed to changes in the fair value of these instruments, any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in equity and then reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the item being hedged affects earnings. (d) WPDH Limited uses cross-currency swaps to hedge the interest payments and principal of its U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes with maturity dates ranging from December 2017 to December 2028. While PPL Energy Supply is exposed to changes in the fair value of these instruments, any change in the fair value of these instruments is recorded in equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the item being hedged affects earnings. Sensitivities represent a 10% adverse movement in both interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. (e) PPL and PPL Energy Supply utilize various risk management instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rates in PPL Energy Supply's debt portfolio. The change in fair value of these instruments, as well as the offsetting change in the value of the hedged exposure of the debt, is reflected in earnings. Sensitivity represents a 10% adverse movement in interest rates. Foreign Currency Risk PPL Energy Supply is exposed to foreign currency risk, primarily through investments in U.K. affiliates. In addition, PPL Energy Supply's domestic operations may make purchases of equipment in currencies other than U.S. dollars. See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding foreign currency translation. PPL and PPL Energy Supply have adopted a foreign currency risk management program designed to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, including firm commitments, recognized assets or liabilities, anticipated transactions and net investments. In addition, PPL and PPL Energy Supply enter into financial instruments to protect against foreign currency translation risk of expected earnings. At December 31, PPL Energy Supply had the following foreign currency hedges outstanding. 2009 2008 Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates (a) Exposure Hedged Fair Value, Net - Asset (Liability) Effect of a 10% Adverse Movement in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates (a) Net investment hedges (b) £ 40 $ 13 $ (6 ) £ 68 $ 34 $ (10 ) Economic hedges (c) 48 2 (4 ) (a) Effects of adverse movements decrease assets or increase liabilities, as applicable, which could result in an asset becoming a liability. (b) To protect the value of a portion of PPL Energy Supply's net investment in WPD, PPL executed forward contracts to sell British pounds sterling. The settlement dates of these contracts range from March 2010 through June 2011. (c) To economically hedge the translation of 2010 expected income denominated in British pounds sterling to U.S. dollars, PPL entered into a combination of average rate forwards and average rate options to sell British pounds sterling. The forwards and options have termination dates ranging from January 2010 through June 2010. NDT Funds - Securities Price Risk In connection with certain NRC requirements, PPL Susquehanna maintains trust funds to fund certain costs of decommissioning the Susquehanna nuclear station. At December 31, 2009, these funds were invested primarily in domestic equity securities and fixed-rate, fixed-income securities and are reflected at fair value on PPL Energy Supply's Balance Sheet. The mix of securities is designed to provide returns sufficient to fund Susquehanna's decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities included in the trusts are exposed to price fluctuation in equity markets, and the values of fixed-rate, fixed-income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. PPL actively monitors the investment performance and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust policy statement. At December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and a 10% decrease in equity prices would have resulted in an estimated $40 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets, compared with $27 million at December 31, 2008. See Notes 17 and 21 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding the NDT funds. Defined Benefit Plans - Securities Price Risk See "Application of Critical Accounting Policies - Defined Benefits" for additional information regarding the effect of securities price risk on plan assets. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that PPL Energy Supply would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. PPL Energy Supply maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparty credit (including requirements that counterparties maintain specified credit ratings) and requires other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstances in order to limit counterparty credit risk. However, PPL Energy Supply has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, financial institutions and other energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations may impact PPL Energy Supply's overall exposure to credit risk, positively or negatively, as counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions. PPL Energy Supply includes the effect of credit risk on its fair value measurements to reflect the probability that a counterparty will default when contracts are out of the money (from the counterparty's standpoint). In this case, PPL Energy Supply would have to sell into a lower-priced market or purchase from a higher-priced market. When necessary, PPL Energy Supply records an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the probability that a counterparty will not pay for deliveries PPL Energy Supply has made but not yet billed, which are reflected in "Unbilled revenues" on the Balance Sheets. PPL Energy Supply also has established a reserve with respect to certain sales to the California ISO for which PPL Energy Supply has not yet been paid, which is reflected in accounts receivable on the Balance Sheets. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information. See "Overview" in this Item 7 and Notes 15, 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements for additional information on credit concentration and credit risk. Related Party Transactions PPL Energy Supply is not aware of any material ownership interests or operating responsibility by senior management of PPL Energy Supply in outside partnerships, including leasing transactions with variable interest entities, or other entities doing business with PPL Energy Supply. For additional information on related party transactions, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. Acquisitions, Development and Divestitures PPL Energy Supply is currently planning incremental capacity increases of 239 MW, primarily at its existing generating facilities. See "Item 