Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision with respect to any shares of our common stock. This report contains certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, our management. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our or our management’s current views and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the following Risk Factors. Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements in 2012 and beyond could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, those forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry Failure of our campuses to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students or loss of our authorization to operate our campuses. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate SAs, be accredited by an AC recognized by the ED and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. As a result, our campuses are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, SAs and ACs, which cover the vast majority of our operations. The ED, SAs and ACs periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or implemented or whether all of our campuses will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. If our campuses failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on our campuses; • terminate or limit our campuses’ operations or ability to grant degrees; • restrict or revoke our campuses’ accreditation; • limit, terminate or suspend our campuses’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require our campuses to repay funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the ED; • subject our institutions to heightened cash monitoring by the ED; • transfer our institutions from the ED’s advance system of receiving Title IV Program funds to its reimbursement system, under which an institution must disburse its own funds to students and document the students’ eligibility for Title IV Program funds before receiving such funds from the ED; and • subject us or our campuses to other civil or criminal penalties. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. If any of our campuses lost its state authorization, the campus would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the campus. If any of our campuses lost its accreditation, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and, in some states, its ability to operate. If we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending a campus that lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, we could be forced to close that campus. Closing multiple campuses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” -12- Table of Contents The following are some of the specific risk factors related to our highly regulated industry: Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV Programs. The U.S. Congress enacted the HEA to be reauthorized on a periodic basis, which most recently occurred in 2008. Some of the changes to the requirements governing the Title IV Programs increased our administrative burden, which has adversely affected our operations. If our efforts to comply with the provisions of the HEA are inconsistent with how the ED interprets the HEA or implements its regulations under the HEA, or with other regulations, we may be found to be in noncompliance with those provisions and the ED could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations and/or condition or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. In addition, the U.S. Congress can change the laws affecting Title IV Programs in the annual federal appropriations bills and other laws it enacts between the HEA reauthorizations. For example, on April 15, 2011, the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011 was signed into law (the “FYCAA”). The FYCAA repealed a provision in the HEA, effective July 1, 2011, pursuant to which students could receive a second grant under the Federal Pell Grant (the “Pell”) program in a single federal student aid award year. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 (“Appropriations Act”), which was signed into law on December 23, 2011, places new restrictions on students’ eligibility for grants under the Pell program effective July 1, 2012. As a result, the amount of federal student financial aid available to some current and prospective students will be less, but we do not believe that those changes will negatively affect the decisions of prospective or current students to begin or continue attending our institutions. At this time, we cannot predict all of the changes that the U.S. Congress will ultimately make. Since a significant percentage of our revenue is indirectly derived from Title IV Programs, any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV Program funding or the ability of our campuses or students to participate in Title IV Programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one or more of our campuses lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, or if the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV Program funding, we would try to arrange or provide alternative sources of financial aid for the students at the affected campuses. We cannot assure you that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide loans to students attending those campuses or that the interest rate and other terms of those loans would be as favorable as for Title IV Program loans. In addition, the private organizations could provide a discounted disbursement amount to us on the student loans and/or require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance on unfavorable terms, and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our students, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks. Legislative action may also increase our administrative costs and burden and require us to modify our practices in order for our campuses to comply fully with the legislative requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent rulemaking by the ED could materially and adversely affect our business. In the fall of 2009, the ED initiated the process of negotiated rulemaking to make changes to certain provisions of the ED regulations governing Title IV Programs. The negotiated rulemaking focused on 14 program integrity issues. On June 18 and July 26, 2010, the ED issued NPRMs which addressed all 14 program integrity issues. On October 29, 2010, the ED issued final rules related to the June 18, 2010 NPRM and to the portion of the July 26, 2010 NPRM that established a notification and approval process for additional programs of study. Those final rules became effective, with minor exceptions, on July 1, 2011. The ED issued final rules on June 13, 2011 with respect to the remaining proposed rules in the July 26, 2010 NPRM, which become effective on July 1, 2012. The final rules issued on October 29, 2010 and June 13, 2011 could materially and adversely affect our business. Among the most significant of the final rules for our business are: • the elimination of 12 safe harbors that set forth certain types of activities and payment arrangements (the “Safe Harbors”) that an institution may carry out without violating the rules that prohibit payment of any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds (the “Incentive Compensation Prohibition”); • the GE Requirements that each of our programs of study must satisfy; • notifying the ED of, and possibly obtaining the ED’s approval to offer, additional programs of study that lead to gainful employment; -13- Table of Contents • determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours; • the specifications of what constitutes acceptable authorization by a state for institutions to offer postsecondary programs of study in that state; and • significantly broadening institutional liability to the ED for “substantial misrepresentation” that would, among other things, subject institutions to sanctions for statements containing inadvertent errors made to non-students, including any member of the public, impose vicarious liability on institutions for the conduct of others, and expose institutions to liability when no actual harm occurs. Incentive Compensation Prohibition. There are many open questions and interpretive issues with respect to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. We believe that the changes related to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition, including the elimination of the Safe Harbors: • increase the uncertainty about what types of compensation are prohibited and which employees are covered by the prohibition; and • may subject us to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq. (“False Claims Act”). These changes adversely affect our ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities, which could make it more difficult to attract and retain highly-qualified employees. The changes could also impair our ability to sustain and grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future growth. See “—We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities.” GE Requirements. There are many open questions and interpretive issues related to the GE Requirements, including questions as to the ability of institutions to obtain and verify the information needed to calculate the applicable metrics. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our programs of study under Title IV Programs are at risk under the GE Requirements due to factors beyond our control. If one or more of our programs of study failed the GE Requirements for: • one federal fiscal year (“FFY”), we would be required to • provide a warning to current and prospective students that explains the GE Requirements, identifies the amount by which the program did not satisfy the GE Requirements and describes the actions that the institution plans to take to improve the program’s performance under the GE Requirements (the “Debt Warning”), and • refrain from enrolling a prospective student until three days after the Debt Warning is given; • two of the three most recently completed FFYs, we would be required to provide and publish an enhanced Debt Warning to current and prospective students; or • three out of four FFYs, the program would become ineligible under the Title IV Programs. In addition, providing Debt Warnings to current and prospective students could have an adverse impact on the level of interest and enrollment in those programs of study. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that the GE Requirements will have on our operations. Changes resulting from the GE Requirements could reduce our enrollment and/or increase our cost of doing business, perhaps materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. See “If any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under the ED’s regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to receive funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs.” See also “One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if the percentage of its revenue derived from those programs is too high.” Additional Programs of Study. The final rules related to notifying the ED, and possibly obtaining the ED’s approval to offer, additional programs of study require a proprietary institution to notify the ED at least 90 days in advance of starting classes in any new program of study. The notice must include, among other things, information with regard to: • how the institution determined that a need for the program existed; • how the program was designed to meet local market needs for programs delivered in residence, or regional or national market needs for programs delivered by distance education over the Internet; • any wage analysis that the institution performed; • how the program was reviewed or approved by, or developed in conjunction with, business advisory committees, program integrity boards, public or private oversight or regulatory agencies and businesses that would likely employ graduates; -14- Table of Contents • the inclusion of the program in the institution’s accreditation; • the date that the institution plans to start classes in the program; and • how the program would be offered in connection with, or in response to, any applicable initiative by a governmental entity. The ED will review the notice submitted by the proprietary institution and advise the institution whether the new program of study must be approved by the ED. We do not know how the ED will apply its rules with respect to additional programs. If we are required to obtain approval from the ED for any new programs of study and are unable to obtain the ED’s approval in a timely manner, our ability to offer the new program of study would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On September 27, 2011, the ED issued a NPRM that would eliminate the notice and approval requirement for certain new programs of study. Under the ED’s September 27, 2011 NPRM, unless the ED otherwise notifies a proprietary institution, that institution would only have to apply to the ED for approval of those new programs of study that are: • the same as, or substantially similar to, programs that were voluntarily discontinued by the institution at the time those programs were failing under the GE Requirements; • the same as, or substantially similar to, programs that became ineligible under the GE Requirements; or • substantially similar to programs that are failing under the GE Requirements. Clock Hours. The final rules related to determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours, as opposed to credit hours, are unclear. Students attending credit hour programs of study that are required to be measured in clock hours will likely receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education with respect to those programs of study. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. If we were to erroneously determine that a program of study is not required to measure student progress in clock hours, we would likely be liable for repayment of a portion of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that program of study based on the difference between the amount of funds those students received and the amount they were eligible to receive. State Authorization. Under the ED’s final rules regarding state authorization, institutions that participate in Title IV Programs must be authorized by name to offer postsecondary education by each state where the institution has a physical presence. If an institution offers postsecondary education through distance education to students in a state in which the institution is not physically located, the institution must satisfy any requirements of that state for the institution to offer postsecondary distance education to students in that state. A state must also have a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws. The ED will determine whether a state’s institutional authorization and complaint process satisfies the ED’s regulations. We believe that: • all of our campuses were physically located in states that satisfied the ED’s final rules regarding state authorization; and • each of our institutions that was offering programs of study through distance education to students in states in which the institution was not physically located satisfied any requirements of those states for the institution to offer postsecondary education to students located in that state. We cannot predict the extent to which the ED will determine that the institutional authorization or complaint review process of any state satisfies the ED’s regulations. If any of our campuses lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because a state’s institutional authorization and complaint process does not satisfy the ED’s regulations, and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending that campus, we would probably have to close that campus. Closing multiple campuses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that the ED’s new regulations will have on our operations. Compliance with these regulations could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if its federal student loan cohort default rates are too high. Under the HEA, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs, if the rates at which the institution’s students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages. The ED calculates these rates for each institution on an annual basis, based on the number of -15- Table of Contents students who have defaulted, not the dollar amount of such defaults. Each institution that participated in the FFEL program and/or FDL program receives a FFEL/FDL cohort default rate for each FFY based on defaulted FFEL and FDL program loans. A FFY is October 1 through September 30. Currently, the ED calculates an institution’s annual cohort default rate as the rate at which borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one FFY default on those loans by the end of the next FFY (“Two-Year CDR”). Beginning with the calculation of institutions’ cohort default rates for FFY 2009, which are expected to be calculated and published by the ED in 2012, the period for which students’ defaults will be included in an institution’s cohort default rate will be extended by one year, so that the formula will be the rate at which borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one FFY default on those loans by the end of the second succeeding FFY (“Three-Year CDR”). Currently, if an institution’s Two-Year CDR is: • 25% or greater for three consecutive FFYs, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL and Pell programs for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs; or • greater than 40% for one FFY, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL programs for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs. None of our institutions had a Two-Year CDR of 25% or greater for any of the three most recent FFYs for which official or preliminary Two-Year CDRs have been issued by the ED. The following table sets forth the average of our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs for the FFYs indicated: FFY Two - Year CDR Average 2009 (a) 22.3 % 2008 12.2 % 2007 11.5 % (a) As of February 15, 2012, the most recent FFY for which the ED has issued preliminary and published official Two-Year CDRs. We believe that the increase in the official Two-Year CDR average for FFY 2009 compared to the official Two-Year CDR average for FFYs 2008 and 2007 was primarily due to the servicing on the FFEL program loans that were purchased by the ED from the lenders (the “Purchased Loans”). The Purchased Loans were initially serviced by the FFEL program lenders that made those loans, until the Purchased Loans were sold to the ED. Upon receipt of the Purchased Loans, the ED transferred the servicing of those loans to the servicer of the FDL program loans. Shortly thereafter, the ED replaced the servicer of the FDL program loans with four different servicers, and servicing of the Purchased Loans was distributed among the new servicers of the FDL program loans. We believe that the changes in the servicers of the Purchased Loans had a negative impact on the servicing of those loans, which could have resulted in a higher Two-Year CDR average with respect to those loans. Our institutions’ Two-Year CDR average for FFY 2009 with respect to the FFEL program loans that were not sold by the FFEL program lenders to the ED (the “Retained Loans”) was approximately the same as our institutions’ Two-Year CDR average for FFY 2008. We believe that this is primarily due to the absence of any disruption in the servicing of the Retained Loans. We appealed the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 on the basis that the Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. We have not yet received the ED’s determination with respect to our appeals, but we believe that the average of our ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 should be lowered by the ED to between 13.8% and 19.0%, based on the loan servicing information on the Purchased Loans included in the Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 that we obtained from the servicers of those loans. Based on this same information, we believe that the Purchased Loans included in the Two-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010, 2011 and, possibly, 2012 may also have been improperly serviced. As a result, we intend to appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010, 2011 and, possibly, 2012 on the basis that the Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. Beginning with the official Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 (which we believe will be published by the ED in September 2012), the cohort default rate for three consecutive FFYs that triggers loss of eligibility to participate in FDL and Pell programs increases from 25% to 30%. We believe that our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs will likely be higher than our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs, because of longer repayment and default histories, among other factors. We believe that the ITT Technical Institutes’ Three-Year CDRs will exceed 30% for FFY 2009 and could exceed 30% for FFY 2010, in each case primarily due to the servicing on the Purchased Loans, as discussed above. Since the same Purchased Loans are included in both the Two- and Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009, we intend to appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 on the basis that those -16- Table of Contents Purchased Loans were improperly serviced, unless the ED removes the improperly serviced Purchased Loans from the calculation of those rates as a result of our appeal of the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 discussed above. Similarly and for the same reason that we intend to appeal the Two-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010, 2011 and, possibly, 2012, as discussed above, we intend to appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ Three-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010, 2011 and, possibly, 2012. The ED may place an institution on provisional certification status, if the institution’s official: • Two-Year CDR is 25% or greater in any of the three most recent FFYs; or • beginning in 2014, Three-Year CDR is 30% or greater for at least two of the three most recent FFYs. The ED may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified, if it applies for approval to open a new location or offer a new program of study that requires approval, or makes some other significant change affecting its eligibility. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit an institution’s participation in Title IV Programs. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” An institution can appeal its loss of eligibility due to high Three-Year CDRs. During the pendency of any such appeal, the institution remains eligible to participate in the FDL and Pell programs. If an institution continues its participation in the FDL programs during the pendency of any such appeal and the appeal is unsuccessful, the institution must pay the ED the amount of interest, special allowance, reinsurance and any related payments paid by the ED (or which the ED is obligated to pay) with respect to the FDL program loans made to the institution’s students or their parents that would not have been made if the institution had not continued its participation (the “Direct Costs”). If a substantial number of our campuses were subject to losing their eligibility to participate in the FDL and Pell programs because of our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs, the potential amount of the Direct Costs for which we would be liable if our appeals were unsuccessful would prevent us from continuing some or all of the affected campuses’ participation in the FDL program during the pendency of those appeals, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current and future economic conditions in the United States could also adversely affect our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs and Three-Year CDRs. Increases in interest rates, declines in individuals’ incomes, and job losses for our students and graduates or their parents have contributed to, and could continue to contribute to, higher default rates on student loans. The servicing and collection efforts of student loan servicers help to control our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs and Three-Year CDRs. We supplement their efforts by attempting to contact students to advise them of their responsibilities and any deferment, forbearance or alternative repayment plans for which they may qualify. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in FDL and Pell programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under the ED’s regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to receive funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs. On June 13, 2011, the ED issued final regulations that become effective on July 1, 2012, specifying the GE Requirements. If any of our programs of study fails to satisfy the GE Requirements for three out of four FFYs, that program would be deemed ineligible under Title IV Programs. Students cannot obtain financial aid under Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs associated with attending ineligible programs of study. A program of study will satisfy the GE Requirements, if: • the program’s annual loan repayment rate, as defined and calculated by the ED, is at least 35%; • the program’s graduates’ median annual loan payment, as calculated by the ED, is less than or equal to: • 30% of discretionary income; or • 12% of annual earnings; or • the data needed to determine whether the program satisfies the GE Requirements are not available to the ED. The first FFY that a program of study must satisfy the GE Requirements is FFY 2012 (i.e., October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012). Under the GE Requirements, a program of study offered by an institution is defined based on its credential level (e.g., diploma, associate degree, bachelor degree, master’s degree, etc.) and Classification of Institutional Program (“CIP”) code. Different programs of study offered by an institution that are at the same credential level and have the same CIP code are combined and treated as a single program under the GE Requirements. -17- Table of Contents Subject to certain adjustments, limitations and exclusions: • a program of study’s loan repayment rate for a particular FFY is defined and calculated by the ED by dividing: • the original outstanding principal balance of FFEL and FDL program loans owed by students for attendance in that program of study on the date those loans first entered repayment during the applicable earlier FFYs (the “OOPB”); into • the amount of the OOPB represented by those loans that have never been in default and either: • been paid in full by a borrower; or • had the balance reduced during the most recently completed FFY to an amount that is less than the outstanding balance at the beginning of that FFY; and • the annual loan payment for a program of study is calculated by the ED using: • the median loan debt of students who completed the program of study during the applicable earlier FFYs; • the annual interest rate on FDL program unsubsidized loans; and • a 10-year amortization schedule for a program of study that leads to a diploma or associate degree, or a 15-year amortization schedule for a program of study that leads to a bachelor or master’s degree. The median loan debt includes FFEL and FDL program loans, private education loans and institutional financing received by those students for attendance in any program of study offered by the institution. The ED determines whether the annual loan payment for a program of study in a particular FFY is less than or equal to: • 30% of discretionary income by dividing: • the higher of the most currently available mean or median annual earnings of the students who completed the program during the applicable earlier FFYs (the “Applicable Earnings”), less 1.5 times the amount of the most current Poverty Guidelines for a single person in the continental United States; into • the annual loan payment; and • 12% of annual earnings by dividing: • the Applicable Earnings; into • the annual loan payment. The Applicable Earnings will be obtained by the ED from the Social Security Administration or another federal agency (collectively, the “SSA”). If a program’s graduates’ median annual loan payment as calculated by the ED using Applicable Earnings obtained from the SSA is greater than 30% of discretionary income and 12% of annual earnings, however, an institution may demonstrate that the program satisfies the annual loan payment requirements by recalculating the discretionary income and annual earnings percentages using alternative earnings from: • the Bureau of Labor Statistics (“BLS”), but for only FFYs 2012, 2013 and 2014; • an institutional survey conducted in accordance with standards of the National Center for Education Statistics; or • a state-sponsored data system. An institution may use BLS earnings data to recalculate the discretionary income and annual earnings percentages with respect to a program of study, only if the institution: • identifies and provides documentation to the ED of the occupation by Standard Occupational Classification (“SOC”) code(s) issued by the BLS in which more than 50% of the students who completed the program during the applicable earlier FFYs were employed, and that number of students is more than 30; • uses the most current BLS earnings data at the 25th percentile for the identified SOC code (or the weighted average of that data for each SOC code, if more than one SOC code was identified); and • submits to the ED, upon its request, all of the employment and other records that support the SOC code(s) identified with the occupations in which those students were employed. Depending on how the ED interprets and applies the GE Requirements, if any of our programs fail the annual loan payment requirement using the Applicable Earnings from the SSA, we believe that the alternative BLS earnings may provide us with an opportunity to demonstrate that the program satisfies the annual loan payment requirement for FFYs 2012, 2013 and 2014. If a program of study fails to satisfy the GE Requirements for: • one FFY, the institution must provide a Debt Warning and may not enroll a prospective student until three days after the Debt Warning is given to the prospective student; • two of the three most recently completed FFYs, the institution must: • provide the Debt Warning to current and prospective students; -18- Table of Contents • prominently display the Debt Warning on its website; • include the Debt Warning in all of its promotional materials; and • enhance the Debt Warning with additional information, including, without limitation: • the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program; • a timeline and options available to the students, if the institution plans to discontinue the program; • a statement that a student who enrolls or continues in the program should expect to have difficulty repaying his or her student loans; and • resources that are available to students to research other educational options and compare program costs; and • three out of four FFYs, the program of study becomes ineligible under the Title IV Programs. An institution may not seek to reestablish the eligibility of a program of study that becomes ineligible for failure to satisfy the GE Requirements or establish the eligibility of a substantially similar program of study, until the end of the third FFY following the FFY that the program of study became ineligible. A program of study is substantially similar, if it has the same credential level and first four digits of the CIP code as that of the ineligible program. If an institution voluntarily discontinues a program of study that fails to satisfy the GE Requirements for one or two consecutive FFYs, the institution may not seek to reestablish the eligibility of that program of study until the end of the second or third FFY following the FFY in which the institution notifies the ED that the institution is relinquishing Title IV Program eligibility for that program of study, depending on when the institution provides such notice to the ED. There are many open questions and interpretive issues related to the GE Requirements, including questions as to the ability of institutions to obtain and verify the information needed to calculate the applicable metrics. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our programs of study under Title IV Programs are at risk under the GE Requirements due to factors beyond our control, such as: • changes in the income level of persons employed in specific occupations or sectors; • changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs; • changes in student loan repayment rates, including the usage of deferments and forbearances; • changes in student loan delinquency rates; • changes in the nation’s economy, which may affect graduate employment, graduate earnings and, therefore, the ability of graduates to repay their student loans; • personal employment decisions made by our students; • increases in interest rates; and • changes in the ED’s interpretation of any element of the GE Requirements that result in a more expansive or harsh enforcement than is currently presented. In addition, providing Debt Warnings to current and prospective students could have an adverse impact on the level of interest and enrollment in those programs of study. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that the GE Requirements will have on our operations. The GE Requirements have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, significant changes to the programs of study that we offer, in order to comply with the requirements or to avoid the uncertainty associated with such compliance, such as offering programs at lower costs or in fields with higher earnings potential. The GE Requirements have and will continue to put downward pressure on tuition prices, so that students do not incur debt that exceeds the levels required for a program to remain eligible under Title IV Programs. This could, in turn, increase the percentage of our revenue that is derived from Title IV Programs and, therefore, adversely impact our compliance with the 90/10 Rule. We have also begun to limit enrollment in certain programs of study and substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment and/or increase our cost of doing business, perhaps materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations in order to continue our campuses’ participation in Title IV Programs, state authorization and accreditation, if we or our campuses do not meet the financial standards of the ED, SAs or ACs. The ED, SAs and ACs prescribe specific financial standards that an institution must satisfy to participate in Title IV Programs, operate in a state and be accredited. The ED evaluates institutions for compliance with its standards each year, based on the institution’s annual audited financial statements, as well as following any change of control of the institution and when the institution is reviewed for recertification by the ED. The most significant financial responsibility measurement is the institution’s composite score, which is calculated by the ED based on three ratios: • the equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability; -19- Table of Contents • the primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources; and • the net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit. The ED assigns a strength factor to the results of each of these ratios on a scale from negative 1.0 to positive 3.0, with negative 1.0 reflecting financial weakness and positive 3.0 reflecting financial strength. The ED then assigns a weighting percentage to each ratio and adds the weighted scores for the three ratios together to produce a composite score for the institution. The composite score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible by the ED without the need for further oversight. Our institutions’ composite score, based on our fiscal year consolidated financial statements at the parent company level, was 2.1 in 2011 and 1.8 in 2010. Our composite score in 2011 was higher than in 2010 primarily due to a higher equity ratio. In 2011, we repurchased approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $282.7 million compared to approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock for approximately $434.7 million in 2010. Share repurchases have the accounting effect of reducing our shareholders’ equity, which results in a lower equity ratio. Therefore, the lower amount of share repurchases in 2011 contributed to the higher equity ratio in that year compared to 2010. In evaluating an institution’s compliance with the financial responsibility standards, the ED may examine the financial statements of the individual institution, the institution’s parent company, or any party related to the institution. Historically, the ED has evaluated the financial condition of our campuses on a consolidated basis based on our financial statements at the parent company level. If the ED determines that an institution does not satisfy the ED’s financial responsibility standards, the institution may establish its financial responsibility on one of several alternative bases, including posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to a specified percentage of the total Title IV Program funds received by the institution during the institution’s most recently completed fiscal year and, in some cases, agreeing to receive Title IV Program funds under an arrangement other than the ED’s standard advance funding arrangement while being provisionally certified and to be subject to certain additional reporting requirements. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if it does not correctly calculate and return within the required time frame Title IV Program funds for, or refund monies paid by or on behalf of, students who withdraw before completing their program of study. The HEA and its implementing regulations impose limits on the amount of Title IV Program funds withdrawing students can use to pay their education costs (the “Return Policy”). The Return Policy permits a student to use only a pro rata portion of the Title IV Program funds that the student would otherwise be eligible to use, if the student withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment. For the vast majority of our campuses, a period of enrollment is generally an academic quarter. The institution must calculate and return to the ED any Title IV Program funds that the institution receives on behalf of a withdrawing student in excess of the amount the student can use for such period of enrollment. The institution must return those unearned funds in a timely manner which is generally within 45 days of the date the institution determined that the student had withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution is found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. As of December 31, 2011, no audit or review had found that any of our institutions violated the ED’s standard on the timely return of unearned Title IV Program funds. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. The standards of most of the SAs and the ACs limit a student’s obligation to an institution for tuition and fees, if a student withdraws from the institution (the “Refund Policies”). The specific standards vary among the SAs. Depending on when during an academic term a student withdraws and the applicable Refund Policies, in many instances the student remains obligated to the campus for some or all of the student’s education costs that were paid by the Title IV Program funds returned under the Return Policy. In these instances, many withdrawing students are unable to pay all of their education costs, unless the students have access to other sources of financial aid. Qualified students may be able to obtain private education loans that can help replace any Title IV Program funds that are returned if any of those students withdraw, but it is unlikely that many of our affected students would be able to qualify for these types of loans. If these types of loans were unavailable, we could be unable to collect a significant portion of many withdrawing students’ education costs that would have been paid by Title IV Program funds that were returned, which, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if the percentage of its revenue derived from those programs is too high. Under a provision of the HEA commonly referred to as the -20- Table of Contents 90/10 Rule, a proprietary institution may be sanctioned if, on a cash accounting basis, the institution derives more than 90% of its applicable revenue in a fiscal year from Title IV Programs. If an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for any single fiscal year, the ED would place that institution on provisional certification status for the institution’s following two fiscal years, unless the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs ends sooner. In addition, if an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years, it would be ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs as of the first day of the following fiscal year and would be unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the end of the second subsequent fiscal year. Furthermore, if one of our institutions exceeded the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years and became ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs but continued to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the institution to repay, with limited exceptions, all Title IV Program funds disbursed by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. For our 2011 fiscal year, none of our institutions derived more than approximately 69% of its applicable revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV Programs under the 90/10 Rule calculation. Any changes in federal law that increase Title IV Program grant or loan limits may result in an increase in the percentage of revenue that we indirectly derive from Title IV Programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the 90/10 Rule. We believe that the percentage of our institutions’ applicable revenue on a cash accounting basis that is derived from Title IV Programs under the 90/10 Rule calculation will increase slightly in our 2012 fiscal year, due primarily to the inclusion of certain additional federal student loan amounts in our institutions’ revenue derived from Title IV Programs under the 90/10 Rule calculation that began in July 2011. We regularly monitor compliance with the 90/10 Rule to minimize the risk that any of our institutions would derive more than the maximum allowable percentage of its applicable revenue from Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If an institution appeared likely to approach the maximum percentage threshold, we would consider making changes in student financing to comply with the 90/10 Rule, but we cannot assure you that we would be able to do this in a timely manner or at all. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure by one or more of our institutions to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability requirements could result in financial penalties, limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs, or loss of the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy criteria of administrative capability prescribed by the ED. These criteria include requirements that the institution: • demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of its programs and the entry-level job requirements of the relevant fields of employment; • comply with all of the applicable Title IV Program regulations prescribed by the ED; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs; • define and measure the satisfactory academic progress of its students within parameters specified by the ED; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students who receive Title IV Program funds; and • timely submit all required reports and financial statements to the ED. If the ED determines that an institution is not capable of adequately administering its participation in any of the Title IV Programs, the ED could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on the institution; • require the institution to repay funds received under Title IV Programs; • transfer the institution from the advance method of payment of Title IV Program funds to heightened cash monitoring status or the reimbursement system of payment; or • limit or terminate the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. In addition, an institution is currently deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its Two-Year CDR equals or exceeds 25% for any of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published. On and after 2014, an institution is deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its Three-Year CDR equals or exceeds 30% for at least two of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published. If an institution’s administrative capability is impaired solely because its Two-Year CDR or Three-Year CDRs equal or exceed the applicable percentage, the institution can continue to participate in Title IV Programs, but the ED may place the institution on provisional certification. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities. The Incentive Compensation Prohibition prohibits an institution participating in Title IV Programs from providing any commission, bonus or other -21- Table of Contents incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. Prior to July 1, 2011, the ED’s regulations regarding the Incentive Compensation Prohibition set forth 12 Safe Harbors. One of the Safe Harbors permitted the payment of fixed compensation, such as a fixed annual salary or hourly wage, so long as the fixed compensation is not adjusted up or down more than twice during any 12-month period, and any adjustment to the fixed compensation is not based solely on the number of students recruited, admitted, enrolled or awarded financial aid. We believe that we compensated the applicable employees in accordance with this Safe Harbor and other Safe Harbors prior to July 1, 2011, but the law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, and the ED would not entertain a request by an institution for the ED to review and assess its individual compensation plan. In late 2010, the ED modified its regulations concerning the Incentive Compensation Prohibition effective July 1, 2011. All 12 Safe Harbors were eliminated as a result of those modifications. We believe that the changes related to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition, including the elimination of the Safe Harbors: • increase the uncertainty related to our compliance with the Incentive Compensation Prohibition on and after July 1, 2011; • increase the uncertainty about what types of compensation are prohibited and which activities and employees are covered by the Incentive Compensation Prohibition; • required us to change our compensation practices for most of our employees (including our executives); • may subject us to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act; • adversely affect our ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities, which could make it more difficult to attract and retain highly-qualified employees; and • could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. In March 2011, the ED published guidance on the Incentive Compensation Prohibition (the “Guidance”). We believe that the Guidance further increases the uncertainty about the types of compensation that are prohibited and which activities and employees are covered by the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. We cannot be sure that the compensation that we have paid our employees since July 1, 2011 will not be determined to violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. If the ED determines that our compensation practices violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition, the ED could subject us to substantial monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. We could also be subjected to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act related to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. Those sanctions and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that the changes relating to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition will have on our operations. Compliance with those regulations could also reduce our enrollment and increase our cost of doing business. We cannot operate new campuses, add learning sites or offer new programs, if they are not timely authorized by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs, if we do not obtain prior authorization. Our expansion plans assume that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary authorization from the ED, ACs and SAs to establish new campuses, add learning sites to our existing campuses and expand or revise the program offerings at our existing campuses in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain the authorizations from the ED, ACs or SAs for any new campuses or learning sites, or any new or revised program offerings, where such authorizations are required, or to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, our ability to operate the new campuses, add the learning sites or offer new or revised programs as planned would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. The process of obtaining any required SA and ACs authorizations can also delay our operating new campuses, adding learning sites or offering new programs. In certain circumstances, the state laws and regulations in effect in the states where we are located or anticipate establishing a new location or the ACs standards may limit our ability to establish new campuses and learning sites and expand the programs offered at a campus, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. In addition, an institution that is eligible to participate in Title IV Programs may add a new location or program without the ED’s approval only if certain requirements are met. Otherwise, the institution must obtain the ED’s approval before it may disburse Title IV Program funds to students in the new location or program. If we were to erroneously determine that a new location or program is eligible for Title IV Program funding, we would likely be liable for repayment of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that location or program. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” -22- Table of Contents Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to our campuses, which could require us to pay monetary damages, receive other sanctions and expend significant resources to defend those claims or actions. Due to the highly regulated nature of the postsecondary education industry, we are subject to claims of non-compliance with regulatory standards and other actions brought by our regulatory agencies, students, shareholders and other parties. If the results of any of those claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, operational limitations, loss of eligibility to participate in federal or state financial aid programs, debarments, additional oversight and reporting, or other civil and criminal sanctions. Those sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we satisfactorily resolve the issues raised by those types of claims, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address and defend those claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse publicity regarding any of those claims could also negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” The U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (“HELP”) Committee is examining the proprietary postsecondary education industry, and the results of that examination could result in legislation or further rulemaking by the ED that restricts Title IV Program participation by proprietary colleges in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business. In the past two years, the HELP Committee has held a series of hearings and issued a number of reports that were critical of various aspects of the proprietary higher education industry. In August 2010, the HELP Committee requested information from the 30 largest proprietary providers of postsecondary education in the U.S., including us. The Chairman of the HELP Committee has indicated that he will likely introduce legislation as a result of the information obtained through the HELP Committee’s examination of the proprietary higher education industry. That legislation, if passed into law, could result in additional restrictions on our operations. We cannot predict the extent to which, or whether, the HELP Committee’s hearings, review of information and/or reports will result in laws, regulations or administrative actions affecting our participation in Title IV Programs or other aspects of our business. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted, or other administrative actions are taken, that limit our participation in Title IV Programs, our enrollments, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. The operations of a number of companies in the postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, SEC, ED, Government Accountability Office, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, state education and professional licensing authorities, states’ attorney general offices or other state agencies. These investigations and actions have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage that may negatively affect public perceptions of for-profit educational institutions, including the ITT Technical Institutes and Daniel Webster College. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the for-profit sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenue and profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. These allegations, reviews, investigations and enforcement actions and the accompanying adverse publicity could also result in increased scrutiny of, and have a negative impact on, us and our industry. Changes in the amount or availability of veterans’ educational benefits or Department of Defense tuition assistance programs could materially and adversely affect our business. Certain members of the U.S. Congress have recently increased their focus on Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans educational benefits that are used for programs of study offered at proprietary education institutions, particularly distance education programs of study. In addition, certain members of Congress have stated that the 90/10 Rule should be revised to count Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans’ educational benefits toward the 90% limit. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit or condition the amount of educational benefits that veterans can use toward their costs of education at proprietary education institutions or in distance education programs, or that limit or condition the participation of proprietary education institutions or distance education programs in military tuition assistance programs or in Title IV Programs with respect to military tuition assistance programs, our enrollments, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If the graduates of some of our programs are unable to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study, the enrollment in and the revenue derived from those programs could decrease and claims could be made against us that could be costly to defend. Future graduates of certain of our programs of study offered through our Breckinridge School of Nursing and Health Sciences will seek professional licensure in their chosen field following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including: • the merits of the individual student; and -23- Table of Contents • whether the campus and the program were authorized by the appropriate SAs and/or approved by an accrediting commission and/or professional association. Certain SAs have refused to license students who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. In the event that one or more SAs refuses to recognize our graduates for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our campuses or their programs, student enrollment in those programs would be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to claims that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively identify, establish and operate new campuses and learning sites, our growth may be slowed. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate operating new campuses and adding learning sites to existing campuses at locations throughout the United States. Establishing new campuses and learning sites poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of existing campuses. To operate a new campus or add a learning site, we would be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the applicable SAs and ACs, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, a new campus or learning site must be certified by the ED, either before or after it starts disbursing Title IV Program funds to its students. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new campuses or learning sites. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established campuses or learning sites could slow our growth, make any newly established campuses or learning sites more costly to operate than we had planned and have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Geographically Expand the Delivery of our Educational Offerings.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively identify, develop, obtain approval to offer and teach new programs at different levels in a cost-effective and timely manner. Part of our business strategy also includes increasing the number, levels, lengths and disciplines of programs offered at our campuses. Developing and offering new programs pose challenges and require us to make investments in research and development, management and capital expenditures, to incur marketing and advertising expenses and to devote other resources that are in addition to, and in some cases greater than, those associated with our current program offerings. In order to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses, we may be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the ED, SAs, ACs and, in certain circumstances, specialized programmatic accrediting commissions, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could affect the programs offered at our campuses. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify new programs to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion, that we will be able to obtain the requisite authorizations to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses or that students will enroll in any new programs that we offer at our campuses. Any failure by us to effectively identify, develop, obtain authorization to offer and teach new programs at our campuses could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Enhance Results at Each Institution.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technical skills and also appropriate soft skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. The skills that employees need may evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by the employers we serve or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates. The awareness of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates is important to the success of our campuses. If we were unable to successfully market or advertise our programs, our ability to attract and enroll prospective students in our programs would be adversely affected and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability would be impaired. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing or advertising our programs: -24- Table of Contents • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • employer dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • high costs of certain types of advertising media; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or proprietary education generally; • our failure to maintain or expand our brands or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and • diminished access to students during their attendance in high schools. If we are unable to timely identify lenders to make private education loans to our students, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected, our receivables could increase and our student population could decrease. In 2011, we derived approximately 7% of our cash receipts from unaffiliated, private education loan programs that were made available to eligible students at our campuses to help fund a portion of the students’ cost of education. The vast majority of these private education loans were made under two programs, both of which expired in 2011. We are pursuing arrangements with unaffiliated lenders for them to provide private education loans to our students and their parents who qualify. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to timely identify alternative lenders on terms as favorable to us as the previous programs were, or at all. Adverse market conditions for consumer loans and student loans, including lenders’ difficulties in reselling or syndicating student loan portfolios, have resulted and could continue to result in providers of private education loans reducing the availability of, or increasing the costs associated with, providing those loans to students. The loan underwriting standards can vary significantly among lenders, which could adversely affect the ability of some of our students to obtain private education loans. In particular, private education loans to students with low credit scores are difficult to obtain. If we are unable to timely identify lenders to make private education loans to our students and their parents, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our receivables could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, even if private education loans are made available to our students, prospective and current students may determine that the borrowing costs associated with private education loans are too expensive and cause them to abandon or delay their education. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. If the charge-off rate on private education loans under programs where we have a guarantee obligation is higher than we anticipate, or if the charge offs occur earlier in the life of those loans, our guarantee obligations related to those loans may have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into risk sharing and guarantee agreements (collectively, “RSAs”) with unaffiliated entities related to private education loans provided to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources does not cover. Under two of the RSAs, we guarantee the repayment of any private education loans that are charged off above a certain percentage of the private education loans made under that RSA or related program, based on dollar volume. Under the third RSA, we guarantee the payment of principal, interest and certain call premiums on $300 million of principal of senior debt obligations of, and administrative fees and expenses of, an unaffiliated trust that holds the private education loans made under the PEAKS Private Student Loan Program (“PEAKS Program”). Our obligations under each of the RSAs will remain in effect until all private education loans made under that RSA, related program or the senior debt obligation, as applicable, are paid in full or charged off. The maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make pursuant to our guarantee obligations under the RSAs are affected by various factors. See Notes 11 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are not able to estimate the maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make under the RSAs. Based on the repayment history of our students with respect to private education loans, we do not believe that our guarantee obligations under the RSAs will have a material adverse effect on us. If, however, the charge-off rate on the loans that are subject to the RSAs is higher than we anticipate, or if the charge offs occur earlier in the life of those loans, we could be required to pay material amounts under our guarantee obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At the end of each reporting period, we assess whether we should recognize a contingent liability related to the various claims and contingencies that we are subject to, including those related to litigation, business transactions, guarantee arrangements and employee-related matters, among others. As of December 31, 2011, our recorded liability for these claims and contingencies was approximately $36.0 million and is primarily included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The substantial majority of this amount pertains to our guarantee arrangements. In addition, due to the expiration of the previous private education loan programs that were available to our students, we are attempting to identify unaffiliated lenders to make private education loans to our students going forward. Those lenders could provide a discounted disbursement amount to us on the student loans and/or require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance on terms that are less favorable to us than the disbursement arrangements and guarantee obligations under the previous private education loan programs. -25- Table of Contents If we experience losses in excess of the amounts that we have reserved with respect to the significant amount of internal student financing that we have provided to our students, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay the portion of their cost of education that is not covered by financial aid or other funds. These balances are unsecured and not typically guaranteed. These balances have increased as a result of the number of our students who do not qualify for private education loans from third parties due to their prior credit history and the limited funding available under private education loan programs for which those students could qualify. These balances could become more significant in the future, particularly if we are unable to timely identify unaffiliated lenders to make private education loans to our students. Increases in internal student financing adversely affect our cash flows and expose us to greater credit risk. Although we have reserved for estimated losses related to unpaid student balances, losses in excess of the amount we have reserved for bad debts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High interest rates and tightening of the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students and could increase our risk exposure. Since much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates, higher interest rates cause a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and, consequently, in our revenue. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program and private education loans. High default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, trigger our guarantee obligations with respect to private education loan programs and/or negatively affect the willingness of private lenders to make private education loan programs available to our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, tighter credit markets have caused lenders to alter the terms of private education loans that they offer in ways that are not beneficial to our student and parent borrowers, such as: • changing the terms and pricing of their private education loans in ways that are less favorable to borrowers; • reducing or eliminating borrower benefits on private education loans; and • becoming more selective in originating private education loans, which could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history to borrow the necessary funds to pay their cost of education. As a result of those adverse effects on our students’ ability to finance their cost of education, our receivables could increase and/or our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, a tighter credit market could cause other lenders to seek contractual terms from us related to private education loans that increase our exposure to credit risk. Our loss of key personnel could harm our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school administrators and corporate management. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services. Our ability to develop a strong team of employees with these responsibilities may be affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to timely and effectively train and motivate our employees in order for them to become productive; • restrictions imposed by regulatory bodies on the method of compensating employees, such as the Incentive Compensation Prohibition; • our ability to attract enough prospective students to our program offerings; and • our ability to effectively manage a multi-institutional and multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services, our operations would be adversely affected. Competition could decrease our market share or force us to increase spending. The postsecondary education market in the United States is highly fragmented and competitive, with no single private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. Our campuses compete for students with degree- and nondegree-granting institutions, which include public and private nonprofit colleges and proprietary institutions, as well as with alternatives to higher -26- Table of Contents education, such as military service or immediate employment. Certain public and private colleges offer programs similar to those offered by our campuses at a lower tuition cost due in part to government subsidies, foundation grants, tax deductible contributions or other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. Other proprietary institutions offer programs that compete with those of our campuses. Certain of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have greater financial and other resources than we do. All of these factors could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. We may be required to increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on our seasonal student enrollment patterns. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our quarterly results of operations have tended to fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in our total student population. Our student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our revenue in our third and fourth fiscal quarters has generally benefited from increased student matriculations. The number of new students entering our campuses is typically higher in September. Our campuses’ academic schedule generally does not affect our incurrence of most of our costs, however, and our costs do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We believe that quarterly fluctuations in results of operations should continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. These patterns may change, however, as a result of increased enrollment of adult students. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Variations in Quarterly Results of Operations.” We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions of other schools or education-related businesses in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others: • regulatory approvals; • significant capital expenditures; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities; • our ability to control costs; and • our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in: • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets; • charges relating to integration costs; and • an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have an adverse effect on our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could disrupt our operations. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, violent acts and threats of future attacks could adversely affect the U.S. and world economies. Finally, future terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict that could further impact our operations and result in prospective students, as well as our current students and employees, entering military service. These factors could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God could have an adverse effect on our operations. Hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters and acts of God could disrupt our operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and -27- Table of Contents employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, natural disasters could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses in that region and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, as well as required approvals by the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our By-Laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Those provisions could: • limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock; • discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change in control of us (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Certain of those provisions authorize us to: • issue “blank check” preferred stock; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes expiring in rotation; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs have requirements pertaining to the change in ownership and/or control (collectively “change in control”) of institutions, but these requirements do not uniformly define what constitutes a change in control and are subject to varying interpretations as to whether a particular transaction constitutes a change in control. If we or any of our campuses experience a change in control under the standards of the ED, the ACs or the SAs, we or the affected campuses must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. Transactions or events that constitute a change in control for one or more of our regulatory agencies include: • the acquisition of a school from another entity; • significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock; and • significant changes to the composition of our, or any campus, Board of Directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, a required approval of any change in control from the relevant regulatory agencies could impair our ability or the ability of the affected campuses to participate in Title IV Programs, or could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in one or more states until we receive the required approval. A material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would result if we had a change in control and a material number of our campuses: • failed to timely obtain the approvals of the SAs required prior to or following a change in control; • failed to timely regain accreditation by the ACs or have their accreditation temporarily continued or reinstated by the ACs; • failed to timely regain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs from the ED or receive temporary certification to continue to participate in Title IV Programs pending further review by the ED; or • were subjected by the ED to restrictions that severely limited for a substantial period of time the number of new additional locations and/or new programs of study that are eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. The fact that a change in control would require approval of the relevant regulatory agencies, and the uncertainty and potential delay related to obtaining such approvals, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. If we are unable to conclude successfully litigation against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the ordinary conduct of our business, we are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students or graduates and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage to resolve those matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. See “Legal Proceedings.” In connection with the securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits that are currently pending against us and some of our officers and directors, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, defense costs and other expenses, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of these or other actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. -28- Table of Contents The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding prospective students, students, their families and employees. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could subject us to costly claims or litigation, have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. Potential new federal or state laws and regulations also may increase our costs of compliance or limit our ability to use personal information to recruit students. Security breaches or system interruptions or delays involving our computer networks could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, limit our ability to attract and retain students and require us to expend significant resources. The performance and reliability of our computer systems are critical to our information management, reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could disrupt the provision of education to students attending our campuses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand the infrastructure of our computer systems on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand. Our computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to attract and retain students. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of those security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by those breaches. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to distinctive marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use the “ITT” and related marks and course content developed by our faculty, our other employees and third party content experts. We cannot assure you that those measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect those rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our names, curricula and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by those attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in those disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course or a program of study. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights, such as certain patent rights, may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid infringing upon those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation, regardless of whether the claim has merit. Our insurance coverage may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or programs of study, or pay significant monetary damages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. Those factors include, among others: • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; -29- Table of Contents • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or changes in the way that laws, regulations and accreditation standards are interpreted and applied; • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto; • negative media reports with respect to our industry; • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have affected the market prices of many companies in the proprietary, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • the availability of financing for our students; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. Those factors could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which those shares were purchased. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 