ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business may be impacted by the existence of the FDIC informal agreement for Royal Bank and the informal agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Our success as a business is dependent upon pursuing various alternatives in not only achieving the growth and expansion of our banking franchise but also in managing our day to day operations. The existence of the informal agreements limits and impacts our ability to pursue all previously available alternatives in the management of the Company. Our ability to retain existing retail and commercial customers as well as the ability to attract potentially new customers may be impacted by the existence of the informal agreements. Our ability to obtain lines of credit, to receive attractive collateral treatment from funding sources, and to pursue all funding alternatives in this interest rate environment could be potentially impacted and thereby limit liquidity alternatives. Royal Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company, which provides funding for cash dividends to our shareholders, is subject to prior written consent of the FDIC and Department. Moreover, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Our ability to raise capital could be potentially limited or impacted as a result of the informal agreements. Attracting new management talent is critical to the success of our business and could be potentially impacted due to the existence of the informal agreements. Under the MOU, Royal Bank must maintain a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8% and 12%, respectively. At December 31, 2013, based on capital levels calculated under RAP, Royal Bank’s leverage ratio and total risk-based capital ratio were 9.13% and 15.61%, respectively. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which we operate. Our earnings are significantly generated from net interest income which is heavily reliant on the interest and fees we earn on loans. If prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Unfavorable economic conditions in our targeted market areas, specifically depressed or declining real estate values could affect the ability of customers to repay their loans, impede our growth, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations through potential increases in credit losses. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across broader and more diverse economies. Our concentration of commercial real estate and construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect our earnings. Our commercial real estate and construction and land development loan portfolio held for investment was $193.6 million at December 31, 2013 comprising 53% of total loans. Commercial real estate and construction and development loans are often riskier and tend to have significantly larger balances than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. While we believe that the commercial real estate concentration risk is mitigated by diversification among the types and characteristics of real estate collateral properties, sound underwriting practices, and ongoing portfolio monitoring and market analysis, the repayments of these loans usually depends on the successful operation of a business or the sale of the underlying property. As a result, these loans are more likely to be unfavorably affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy in general. Commercial and industrial loans comprise 22% of the loan portfolio. These loans are collateralized by various business assets the value of which may decline during adverse market and economic conditions. Adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy may result in increasing levels of loan charge-offs and non-performing assets and the reduction of earnings. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. 18 Further, under guidance adopted by the federal banking regulators, banks which have concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans (other than loans for majority owner occupied properties) would be expected to maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, higher levels of capital. It is possible that Royal Bank may be required to maintain higher levels of capital than it would be otherwise expected to maintain as a result of Royal Bank’s commercial real estate loans, which may require us to obtain additional capital sooner than we would otherwise seek it, which may reduce shareholder returns. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our future growth may require us to raise additional capital but, that capital may not always be available. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. However, in order to maintain our well-capitalized status and to support future growth we may need to raise capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Under the informal agreement as described in “Regulatory Actions” under “Item 1 – Business” of this Report, Royal Bank is required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 8% and a Total risk-based capital ratio of 12% during the term of the informal agreement. Additionally, Basel III introduces new minimum capital requirements that are effective on January 1, 2015, with the capital conservation buffer requirements phased in over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2016. In addition, on February 20, 2009, we issued 30,407 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, to the United States Department of Treasury under its TARP Capital Purchase Program, The Series A Preferred Stock issued to Treasury has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and contains other provisions, including restrictions on the payment of dividends on common stock and on repurchases of any shares of preferred stock ranking equal to or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock or common stock while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, which provisions may make it more difficult to raise additional capital on favorable terms while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding. Therefore, we may be unable to raise additional capital, or to raise capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when required, our ability to further expand operations through both internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional capital, the existing shareholders are subject to dilution and a potential capital raise could adversely impact the Company’s deferred tax asset. We may not be successful in redeeming our Series A Preferred Stock. We have raised approximately $14.0 million in a private placement with the sole use to partially redeem our Series A Preferred Stock through a bid at a future Treasury TARP auction. If we are not successful in the partial redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock then the money raised will be returned to the individual investors. As of December 31, 2013, the Series A Preferred stock dividend in arrears was $7.7 million and has not been recognized in the consolidated financial statements. In February 2014, the preferred cumulative dividend rate prospectively increased from 5% to 9% per annum. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include: analysis of a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria. 19 Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may have interests different from our common shareholders. For as long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of the shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; any amendments to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, privileges, or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or initiation and completion of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, including the Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common stock, and could vote to block the forgoing transactions, even when considered desirable by, or in the best interests of the holders of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, which are subject to regulatory limits. Additionally, we are subject to other dividend limitations. We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Royal Bank is our primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from Royal Bank are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of Royal Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2013, as a result of significant losses within Royal Bank, we had an accumulated deficit and therefore would not have been able to declare and pay any cash dividends. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Royal Bank must receive prior written approval from the FDIC and the Department before declaring and paying a dividend to the Company. Under the terms of the TARP CPP, we are not permitted to declare or pay cash dividends on, or redeem or otherwise acquire, stock that is junior to or on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock issued to Treasury at any time when we have not declared and paid full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. We suspended regular quarterly cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock in August 2009 and, accordingly, are not permitted at this time to pay dividends on our Class A or Class B Common Stock. Additionally, under the terms of the informal agreement, we are prohibited from redeeming the Series A Preferred Stock, which includes participating in a TARP auction, or paying any dividends on shares of our stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Failure to pay dividends on our stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. 20 In attracting business and consumer deposits, Royal Bank faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. The Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies, peer to peer lenders and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over the Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our ability to manage liquidity is always critical in our operation, but more so today given the uncertainty within the capital markets. We monitor and manage our liquidity position on a regular basis to insure that adequate funds are in place to manage the day to day operations and to cover routine fluctuations in available funds. However, our funding decisions can be influenced by unplanned events. These unplanned events include, but are not limited to, the inability to fund asset growth, difficulty renewing or replacing funds that mature, the ability to maintain or draw down lines of credit with other financial institutions, significant customer withdrawals of deposits, and market disruptions. We have a liquidity contingency plan in the event liquidity falls below an acceptable level, however in today’s economic environment, we are not certain that those sources of liquid funds will be available in the future when required. As a result, loan growth may be curtailed to maintain adequate liquidity. Additionally, loans may need to be sold in the secondary market, investments may need to be sold or deposits may need to be raised at above market interest rates to maintain liquidity. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, as a larger diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, we are inherently exposed to this risk. We have identified a material weakness relating to accounting for net income tax receivables in connection with the preparation of our financial statements, and failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls could cause us to have additional material weaknesses, which could adversely affect our operations and financial position. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we identified a material weakness in our accounting for net income tax receivables. The tax receivables related to amended tax returns for 2005 through 2007, in which the Company carried back losses from 2008 through 2009. These amended returns were filed during the time period 2008 through 2011. During 2013 after an IRS joint committee concluded their review of the amended returns, management determined that the tax receivables would not be realized and recorded a $4.8 million reversal to accumulated deficit with the offsetting adjustment to other assets and other liabilities. There was no effect on net income or net loss for the periods presented herein as a result of the adjustment. 21 To remediate the weakness identified above with respect to internal controls related to the accounting for income taxes, we have engaged a nationally recognized independent public accounting firm to review and improve the Company’s accounting procedures related to income taxes. While we believe that the planned steps will remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to accounting for net income tax receivables, no assurances can be made that our remediation is effective until our remedial controls operate for a period of time. We may in the future also discover additional material weaknesses that require remediation. In addition, an internal control system, no matter how well-designed, cannot provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we might not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult real estate market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business and may continue to adversely affect the Company. We are exposed to downturns in commercial and residential real estate. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past few years, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, consumer, commercial and construction loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and sustained unemployment may negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy had resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit had led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions also experienced decreased access to borrowings. While the economy and market conditions have improved, the current economic recovery has been slow. A decline in current economic conditions would likely put pressure on consumers and businesses and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. In particular, as the result of a deteriorating economy we may face the following risks: · We could face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to accurately estimate the losses inherent in our credit portfolio could be more complex. · We may be required to pay higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events. · We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies. 22 Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of our income is the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, pre-payment speeds and overall profitability. Recent and future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future growth. As described under “Supervision and Regulation” we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws may negatively affect our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on our business, these changes could be materially adverse to shareholders. Changes in consumers’ use of banks and changes in consumers’ spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This disintermediation could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and we may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. Our business is exposed to cyber-security risks, which may include denial of service, hacking and identity theft. Cyber threats are increasing and rapidly changing. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent all cyber-attacks. Denial of service attacks are meant to disrupt our internet site by slowing it down or causing it to be temporarily unavailable. This type of attack is not intended to penetrate our firewall and steal customer financial information. Hacking and identity theft are meant to breach our security and steal corporate and customer information. While we believe we have the appropriate measures and safeguards in place to mitigate cyber-security risks, we cannot be certain that they are entirely protected from a cyber-attack. Successful cyber-attacks of any nature could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations through substantial reputational harm, remedial costs, loss of customers, increased regulatory scrutiny and potential financial liability. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect our earnings. Acts or threats or terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. 23 Other Risks Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 56% of our Class A common stock and 84% of our Class B common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2014. As a result of their ownership, the directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The directors and executive officers may vote to cause the Company to take actions with which the other shareholders do not agree or that are not beneficial to all shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 