Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision with respect to any shares of our common stock. This report contains certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, our management. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our or our management’s current views and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the following Risk Factors. Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements in 2013 and beyond could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, those forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry Failure of our campuses to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students or loss of our authorization to operate our campuses. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate SAs, be accredited by an AC recognized by the ED and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. As a result, our campuses are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, SAs and ACs, which cover the vast majority of our operations. The ED, SAs and ACs periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or implemented or whether all of our campuses will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. -11- Table of Contents If our campuses failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on our campuses; • terminate or limit our campuses’ operations or ability to grant degrees; • restrict or revoke our campuses’ accreditation; • limit, terminate or suspend our campuses’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require our campuses to repay funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the ED; • subject our institutions to heightened cash monitoring by the ED; • transfer our institutions from the ED’s advance system of receiving Title IV Program funds to its reimbursement system, under which an institution must disburse its own funds to students and document the students’ eligibility for Title IV Program funds before receiving such funds from the ED; and • subject us or our campuses to other civil or criminal penalties. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. If any of our campuses lost its state authorization, the campus would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the campus. If any of our campuses lost its accreditation, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and, in some states, its ability to operate. If we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending a campus that lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, we could be forced to close that campus. Closing multiple campuses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” The following are some of the specific risk factors related to our highly regulated industry: Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV Programs. The U.S. Congress enacted the HEA to be reauthorized on a periodic basis, which most recently occurred in 2008. Some of the changes to the requirements governing the Title IV Programs increased our administrative burden, which has adversely affected our operations. If our efforts to comply with the provisions of the HEA are inconsistent with how the ED interprets the HEA or implements its regulations under the HEA, or with other regulations, we may be found to be in noncompliance with those provisions and the ED could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations and/or condition or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. In addition, the U.S. Congress can change the laws affecting Title IV Programs in the annual federal appropriations bills and other laws it enacts between the HEA reauthorizations. For example, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 (“Appropriations Act”), which was signed into law on December 23, 2011, placed new restrictions on students’ eligibility for grants under the Pell program effective July 1, 2012. As a result, the amount of federal student financial aid available to some current and prospective students is less, but we do not believe that those changes will negatively affect the decisions of prospective or current students to begin or continue attending our institutions, because: • the reduction in the Pell grant amount received by a particular student is not material relative to the cost of the student’s program of study; and • we believe that there are other financial aid sources available to students that they could use to help pay their program costs, including other grants, scholarships and internal student financing. At this time, we cannot predict all of the changes that the U.S. Congress will ultimately make. Since a significant percentage of our revenue is indirectly derived from Title IV Programs, any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV Program funding or the ability of our campuses or students to participate in Title IV Programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one or more of our campuses lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, or if the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV Program funding, we would try to arrange or provide alternative sources of financial aid for the students at the affected campuses. We cannot assure you that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide loans to students attending those campuses or that the interest rate and other terms of those loans would be as favorable as for Title IV Program loans. In addition, the private organizations could provide a discounted disbursement amount to us on the student loans and/or require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance on unfavorable terms, and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our students, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks. Legislative action may also increase our administrative costs and burden and require us to modify our practices in order for our campuses to comply fully with the legislative requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if its federal student loan cohort default rates are too high. Under the HEA, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs, if the rates at which the institution’s students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages. The ED calculates these rates for each institution on an annual basis, based on the number of students who have defaulted, not the -12- Table of Contents dollar amount of such defaults. Each institution that participated in the FFEL and/or FDL program receives a FFEL/FDL cohort default rate for each federal fiscal year (“FFY”) based on defaulted FFEL and FDL program loans. A FFY is October 1 through September 30. The ED calculates an institution’s annual cohort default rate as the rate at which borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one FFY default on those loans by the end of: • the next FFY (“Two-Year CDR”); and • the second succeeding FFY (“Three-Year CDR”) The ED began calculating a Three-Year CDR for each institution for FFY 2009. If an institution’s Two-Year CDR is: • 25% or greater for three consecutive FFYs, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL and Pell programs for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs; or • greater than 40% for one FFY, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL programs for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs. None of our institutions had a Two-Year CDR of 25% or greater for any of the FFYs 2008, 2009 or 2010, which are the three most recent FFYs for which official Two-Year CDRs have been issued by the ED. The following table sets forth the average of our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs for the FFYs indicated: FFY Two-Year CDR Average 2010 (a) 16.4 % 2009 18.0 % 2008 12.2 % (a) The most recent FFY for which the ED has published official Two-Year CDRs. We believe that the increase in the Two-Year CDR average for FFYs 2010 and 2009 compared to the Two-Year CDR average for FFY 2008 was primarily due to the servicing on the FFEL program loans that were purchased by the ED from the lenders (the “Purchased Loans”). The Purchased Loans were initially serviced by the FFEL program lenders that made those loans, until the Purchased Loans were sold to the ED. Upon receipt of the Purchased Loans, the ED transferred the servicing of those loans to the servicer of the FDL program loans. Shortly thereafter, the ED replaced the servicer of the FDL program loans with four different servicers, and servicing of the Purchased Loans was distributed among the new servicers of the FDL program loans. We believe that the changes in the servicers of the Purchased Loans had a negative impact on the servicing of those loans, which could have resulted in a higher Two-Year CDR average with respect to those loans. Our institutions’ Two-Year CDR average for FFYs 2010 and 2009 with respect to the FFEL program loans that were not sold by the FFEL program lenders to the ED (the “Retained Loans”) was approximately the same as our institutions’ Two-Year CDR average for FFY 2008. We believe that this is primarily due to the absence of any disruption in the servicing of the Retained Loans. We have appealed the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2010 on the basis that the Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. Based on the loan servicing information on the Purchased Loans included in the Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2010 that we obtained from the servicers of those loans, we believe that the Purchased Loans included in the Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2011 and, possibly, FFY 2012 may also have been improperly serviced. As a result, we intend to appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Two-Year CDRs for FFY 2011 and, possibly, FFY 2012 on the basis that the Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. Beginning with the official Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009, the cohort default rate for three consecutive FFYs that triggers loss of eligibility to participate in FDL and Pell programs increases from 25% to 30%. We believe that our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs will likely be higher than our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs, because of longer repayment and default histories, among other factors. The ITT Technical Institute institutions’ average Three-Year CDR for FFY 2009 was 34.2%, but we believe that the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ Three-Year CDRs will be less than 30% for FFYs 2010 and 2011. Since the same Purchased Loans are included in both the Two—and Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009, we have appealed the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 on the basis that those Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. Similarly and for the same reason that we intend to appeal the Two-Year CDRs for FFYs 2011 and, possibly, 2012, as discussed above, we intend to appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ Three-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010, 2011 and, possibly, 2012. The ED may place an institution on provisional certification status, if the institution’s official: • Two-Year CDR is 25% or greater in any of the three most recent FFYs; or • beginning in 2014, Three-Year CDR is 30% or greater for at least two of the three most recent FFYs. -13- Table of Contents The ED may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified, if it applies for approval to open a new location or offer a new program of study that requires approval, or makes some other significant change affecting its eligibility. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit an institution’s participation in Title IV Programs. See “Business—Highly-Regulated Industry.” An institution can appeal its loss of eligibility due to high Three-Year CDRs. During the pendency of any such appeal, the institution remains eligible to participate in the FDL and Pell programs. If an institution continues its participation in the FDL programs during the pendency of any such appeal and the appeal is unsuccessful, the institution must pay the ED the amount of interest, special allowance, reinsurance and any related payments paid by the ED (or which the ED is obligated to pay) with respect to the FDL program loans made to the institution’s students or their parents that would not have been made if the institution had not continued its participation (the “Direct Costs”). If a substantial number of our campuses were subject to losing their eligibility to participate in the FDL and Pell programs because of our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs, the potential amount of the Direct Costs for which we would be liable if our appeals were unsuccessful would prevent us from continuing some or all of the affected campuses’ participation in the FDL program during the pendency of those appeals, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current and future economic conditions in the United States could also adversely affect our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs and Three-Year CDRs. Increases in interest rates, declines in individuals’ incomes, and job losses for our students and graduates or their parents have contributed to, and could continue to contribute to, higher default rates on student loans. The servicing and collection efforts of student loan servicers help to lower our institutions’ Two-Year CDRs and Three-Year CDRs. We supplement their efforts by attempting to contact students to advise them of their responsibilities and any deferment, forbearance or alternative repayment plans for which they may qualify. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in FDL and Pell programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the ED’s vacated gainful employment regulations are reinstituted and if any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under those regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to receive funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs. On June 13, 2011, the ED issued final regulations that were to become effective on July 1, 2012, specifying requirements related to a program of study that leads to gainful employment in a recognized occupation (the “GE Requirements”). On June 30, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated all of the GE Requirements, except for those pertaining to certain institutional disclosures. We cannot assure you that all of the GE Requirements will not be reinstituted, whether through an appellate court decision that overturns the District Court’s ruling, the promulgation of new regulations by the ED or otherwise, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the vacated GE Requirements, if any of our programs of study had failed to satisfy those requirements for three out of four FFYs, that program would have been deemed ineligible under Title IV Programs. Students cannot obtain financial aid under Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs associated with attending ineligible programs of study. A program of study would have satisfied the vacated GE Requirements, if: • the program’s annual loan repayment rate, as defined and calculated by the ED, was at least 35%; • the program’s graduates’ median annual loan payment, as calculated by the ED, was less than or equal to: • 30% of discretionary income; or • 12% of annual earnings; or • the data needed to determine whether the program satisfies the GE Requirements were not available to the ED. The first FFY that a program of study was required to satisfy the vacated GE Requirements was FFY 2012 (i.e., October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012). Under the vacated GE Requirements, a program of study offered by an institution was defined based on its credential level (e.g., diploma, associate degree, bachelor degree, master’s degree, etc.) and Classification of Institutional Program (“CIP”) code. Different programs of study offered by an institution that were at the same credential level and had the same CIP code were combined and treated as a single program under the vacated GE Requirements. Subject to certain adjustments, limitations and exclusions: • a program of study’s loan repayment rate for a particular FFY was defined and calculated by the ED by dividing: • the original outstanding principal balance of FFEL and FDL program loans owed by students for attendance in that program of study on the date those loans first entered repayment during the applicable earlier FFYs (the “OOPB”); into • the amount of the OOPB represented by those loans that had never been in default and either: • been paid in full by a borrower; or • had the balance reduced during the most recently completed FFY to an amount that was less than the outstanding balance at the beginning of that FFY; and • the annual loan payment for a program of study was calculated by the ED using: • the median loan debt of students who completed the program of study during the applicable earlier FFYs; -14- Table of Contents • the annual interest rate on FDL program unsubsidized loans; and • a 10-year amortization schedule for a program of study that led to a diploma or associate degree, or a 15-year amortization schedule for a program of study that led to a bachelor or master’s degree. The median loan debt included FFEL and FDL program loans, private education loans and institutional financing received by those students for attendance in any program of study offered by the institution. The ED would have determined whether the annual loan payment for a program of study in a particular FFY was less than or equal to: • 30% of discretionary income by dividing: • the higher of the most currently available mean or median annual earnings of the students who completed the program during the applicable earlier FFYs (the “Applicable Earnings”), less 1.5 times the amount of the most current Poverty Guidelines for a single person in the continental United States; into • the annual loan payment; and • 12 % of annual earnings by dividing: • the Applicable Earnings; into • the annual loan payment. The Applicable Earnings were to be obtained by the ED from the Social Security Administration or another federal agency (collectively, the “SSA”). If a program’s graduates’ median annual loan payment as calculated by the ED using Applicable Earnings obtained from the SSA was greater than 30% of discretionary income and 12% of annual earnings, however, an institution could have demonstrated that the program satisfied the annual loan payment requirements by recalculating the discretionary income and annual earnings percentages using alternative earnings from: • the Bureau of Labor Statistics (“BLS”), but for only FFYs 2012, 2013 and 2014; • an institutional survey conducted in accordance with standards of the National Center for Education Statistics; or • a state-sponsored data system. An institution could have used BLS earnings data to recalculate the discretionary income and annual earnings percentages with respect to a program of study, only if the institution: • identified and provided documentation to the ED of the occupation by Standard Occupational Classification (“SOC”) code(s) issued by the BLS in which more than 50% of the students who completed the program during the applicable earlier FFYs were employed, and that number of students was more than 30; • used the most current BLS earnings data at the 25th percentile for the identified SOC code (or the weighted average of that data for each SOC code, if more than one SOC code was identified); and • submitted to the ED, upon its request, all of the employment and other records that supported the SOC code(s) identified with the occupations in which those students were employed. Depending on how the ED interpreted and applied the vacated GE Requirements, if any of our programs had failed the annual loan payment requirement using the Applicable Earnings from the SSA, we believe that the alternative BLS earnings may have provided us with an opportunity to demonstrate that the program satisfied the annual loan payment requirement for FFYs 2012, 2013 and 2014. If a program of study failed to satisfy the vacated GE Requirements for: • one FFY, the institution was required to provide a warning to current and prospective students that explained the vacated GE Requirements, identified the amount by which the program did not satisfy the vacated GE Requirements and described the actions that the institution planned to take to improve the program’s performance under the vacated GE Requirements (the “Debt Warning”) and could not enroll a prospective student until three days after the Debt Warning was given to the prospective student; • two of the three most recently completed FFYs, the institution was required to: • provide the Debt Warning to current and prospective students; • prominently display the Debt Warning on its website; • include the Debt Warning in all of its promotional materials; and • enhance the Debt Warning with additional information, including, without limitation: • the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program; • a timeline and options available to the students, if the institution planned to discontinue the program; • a statement that a student who enrolled or continued in the program should expect to have difficulty repaying his or her student loans; and • resources that would have been available to students to research other educational options and compare program costs; and • three out of four FFYs, the program of study would become ineligible under the Title IV Programs. An institution could not seek to reestablish the eligibility of a program of study that became ineligible for failure to satisfy the vacated GE Requirements or establish the eligibility of a substantially similar program of study, until the end of the third FFY following the FFY that the program of study became ineligible. A program of study would have been substantially similar, if it -15- Table of Contents had the same credential level and first four digits of the CIP code as that of the ineligible program. If an institution voluntarily discontinued a program of study that failed to satisfy the vacated GE Requirements for one or two consecutive FFYs, the institution could not seek to reestablish the eligibility of that program of study until the end of the second or third FFY following the FFY in which the institution notified the ED that the institution was relinquishing Title IV Program eligibility for that program of study, depending on when the institution provides such notice to the ED. There were many open questions and interpretive issues related to the GE Requirements before most were vacated, including questions as to the ability of institutions to obtain and verify the information needed to calculate the applicable metrics. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our programs of study under Title IV Programs were at risk under the vacated GE Requirements due to factors beyond our control, such as: • changes in the income level of persons employed in specific occupations or sectors; • changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs; • changes in student loan repayment rates, including the usage of deferments and forbearances; • changes in student loan delinquency rates; • changes in the nation’s economy, which may affect graduate employment, graduate earnings and, therefore, the ability of graduates to repay their student loans; • personal employment decisions made by our students; • increases in interest rates; and • changes in the ED’s interpretation of any element of the vacated GE Requirements that would have resulted in a more expansive or harsh enforcement than was presented. In addition, providing Debt Warnings to current and prospective students could have had an adverse impact on the level of interest and enrollment in those programs of study. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that the vacated GE Requirements would have had on our operations. In response to the vacated GE Requirements, we made significant changes to the programs of study that we offer. The vacated GE Requirements also put downward pressure on tuition prices, to help prevent students from incurring debt that exceeded the levels required for a program to remain eligible under Title IV Programs. This could, in turn, increase the percentage of our revenue that is derived from Title IV Programs and, therefore, adversely impact our compliance with other ED regulations. We had also begun to limit enrollment in certain programs of study and substantially increased our efforts to promote student loan repayment. The continuation of any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment and/or increase our cost of doing business, perhaps materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations in order to continue our campuses’ participation in Title IV Programs, state authorization and accreditation, if we or our campuses do not meet the financial standards of the ED, SAs or ACs. The ED, SAs and ACs prescribe specific financial standards that an institution must satisfy to participate in Title IV Programs, operate in a state and be accredited. The ED evaluates institutions for compliance with its standards each year, based on the institution’s annual audited financial statements, as well as following any change of control of the institution and when the institution is reviewed for recertification by the ED. The most significant financial responsibility measurement is the institution’s composite score, which is calculated by the ED based on three ratios: • the equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability; • the primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources; and • the net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit. The ED assigns a strength factor to the results of each of these ratios on a scale from negative 1.0 to positive 3.0, with negative 1.0 reflecting financial weakness and positive 3.0 reflecting financial strength. The ED then assigns a weighting percentage to each ratio and adds the weighted scores for the three ratios together to produce a composite score for the institution. The composite score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible by the ED without the need for further oversight. Our institutions’ composite score, based on our fiscal year consolidated financial statements at the parent company level, was 1.8 in 2012 and 2.1 in 2011. Our composite score in 2012 was lower than in 2011, primarily due to a lower primary reserve ratio and, to a lesser extent, a lower equity ratio. The primary reserve ratio in 2012 was negatively impacted by our lower level of operating income in 2012 compared to 2011. In 2012, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $207.9 million compared to approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock for approximately $282.7 million in 2011. Share repurchases have the accounting effect of reducing our shareholders’ equity, which results in a lower equity ratio. Therefore, share repurchases and lower operating and net income in 2012 contributed to a lower equity ratio in that year compared to 2011. In evaluating an institution’s compliance with the financial responsibility standards, the ED may examine the financial statements of the individual institution, the institution’s parent company, or any party related to the institution. Historically, the ED has evaluated the financial condition of our campuses on a consolidated basis based on our financial statements at the parent company level. If the ED determines that an institution does not satisfy the ED’s financial responsibility standards, the institution -16- Table of Contents may establish its financial responsibility on one of several alternative bases, including posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to a specified percentage of the total Title IV Program funds received by the institution during the institution’s most recently completed fiscal year and, in some cases, agreeing to receive Title IV Program funds under an arrangement other than the ED’s standard advance funding arrangement while being provisionally certified and to be subject to certain additional reporting requirements. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if it does not correctly calculate and return within the required time frame Title IV Program funds for, or refund monies paid by or on behalf of, students who withdraw before completing their program of study. The HEA and its implementing regulations impose limits on the amount of Title IV Program funds withdrawing students can use to pay their education costs (the “Return Policy”). The Return Policy permits a student to use only a pro rata portion of the Title IV Program funds that the student would otherwise be eligible to use, if the student withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment. For the vast majority of our campuses, a period of enrollment is generally an academic quarter. The institution must calculate and return to the ED any Title IV Program funds that the institution receives on behalf of a withdrawing student in excess of the amount the student can use for such period of enrollment. The institution must return those unearned funds in a timely manner which is generally within 45 days of the date the institution determined that the student had withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution is found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. As of December 31, 2012, no audit or review had found that any of our institutions violated the ED’s standard on the timely return of unearned Title IV Program funds. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. The standards of most of the SAs and the ACs limit a student’s obligation to an institution for tuition and fees, if a student withdraws from the institution (the “Refund Policies”). The specific standards vary among the SAs. Depending on when during an academic term a student withdraws and the applicable Refund Policies, in many instances the student remains obligated to the campus for some or all of the student’s education costs that were paid by the Title IV Program funds returned under the Return Policy. In these instances, many withdrawing students are unable to pay all of their education costs, unless the students have access to other sources of financial aid. Qualified students may be able to obtain private education loans that can help replace any Title IV Program funds that are returned if any of those students withdraw, but it is unlikely that many of our affected students would be able to qualify for these types of loans. If these types of loans were unavailable, we could be unable to collect a significant portion of many withdrawing students’ education costs that would have been paid by Title IV Program funds that were returned, which, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if the percentage of its revenue derived from those programs is too high. Under a provision of the HEA commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, a proprietary institution may be sanctioned if, on a cash accounting basis, the institution derives more than 90% of its applicable revenue in a fiscal year from Title IV Programs. If an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for any single fiscal year, the ED would place that institution on provisional certification status for the institution’s following two fiscal years, unless the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs ends sooner. In addition, if an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years, it would be ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs as of the first day of the following fiscal year and would be unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the end of the second subsequent fiscal year. Furthermore, if one of our institutions exceeded the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years and became ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs but continued to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the institution to repay, with limited exceptions, all Title IV Program funds disbursed by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. For our 2012 fiscal year, none of our institutions derived more than approximately 80% of its applicable revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV Programs under the 90/10 Rule calculation. Any changes in federal law that increase Title IV Program grant or loan limits, or that count funds other than Title IV Program funds toward the 90% limit, may result in an increase in the percentage of revenue that we indirectly derive from Title IV Programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the 90/10 Rule. We regularly monitor compliance with the 90/10 Rule to minimize the risk that any of our institutions would derive more than the maximum allowable percentage of its applicable revenue from Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If an institution appeared likely to approach the maximum percentage threshold, we would consider making changes in student financing to comply with the 90/10 Rule, but we cannot assure you that we would be able to do this in a timely manner or at all. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. -17- Table of Contents Failure by one or more of our institutions to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability requirements could result in financial penalties, limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs, or loss of the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy criteria of administrative capability prescribed by the ED. These criteria include requirements that the institution: • demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of its programs and the entry-level job requirements of the relevant fields of employment; • comply with all of the applicable Title IV Program regulations prescribed by the ED; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs; • define and measure the satisfactory academic progress of its students within parameters specified by the ED; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students who receive Title IV Program funds; and • timely submit all required reports and financial statements to the ED. If the ED determines that an institution is not capable of adequately administering its participation in any of the Title IV Programs, the ED could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on the institution; • require the institution to repay funds received under Title IV Programs; • transfer the institution from the advance method of payment of Title IV Program funds to heightened cash monitoring status or the reimbursement system of payment; or • limit or terminate the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. In addition, an institution is currently deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its Two-Year CDR equals or exceeds 25% for any of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published. On and after 2014, an institution is deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its Three-Year CDR equals or exceeds 30% for at least two of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published. If an institution’s administrative capability is impaired solely because its Two-Year CDRs or Three-Year CDRs equal or exceed the applicable percentage, the institution can continue to participate in Title IV Programs, but the ED may place the institution on provisional certification. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities. The ED’s regulations prohibit an institution participating in Title IV Programs from providing any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds (the “Incentive Compensation Prohibition”). We believe that the Incentive Compensation Prohibition: • does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, and the ED will not entertain a request by an institution for the ED to review and assess its individual compensation plan; • may subject us to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq. (“False Claims Act”); • adversely affects our ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities, which makes it more difficult to attract and retain highly-qualified employees; and • impairs our ability to sustain and grow our business. We cannot be sure that the compensation that we have paid our employees will not be determined to violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. If the ED determines that our compensation practices violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition, the ED could subject us to substantial monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. We could also be subjected to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act related to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. Those sanctions and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. We cannot operate new campuses, add learning sites or offer new programs, if they are not timely authorized by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs, if we do not obtain prior authorization. Our expansion plans assume that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary authorization from the ED, ACs and SAs to establish new campuses, add learning sites to our existing campuses and expand or revise the program offerings at our existing campuses in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain the authorizations from the ED, ACs or SAs for any new campuses or learning sites, or any new or revised program offerings, where such authorizations are required, or to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, our ability to operate the new campuses, add the learning sites or offer new or revised programs as planned would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. The process of obtaining any required SA and ACs authorizations can also delay our operating new campuses, adding learning sites or offering new programs. In certain circumstances, the state laws and regulations in effect in the states where we are located or anticipate establishing a new location or the ACs standards may limit our ability to establish new campuses and learning sites and expand the programs offered at a campus, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. -18- Table of Contents In addition, an institution that is eligible to participate in Title IV Programs may add a new location or program without the ED’s approval only if certain requirements are met. Otherwise, the institution must obtain the ED’s approval before it may disburse Title IV Program funds to students in the new location or program. If we were to erroneously determine that a new location or program is eligible for Title IV Program funding, we would likely be liable for repayment of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that location or program. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” Failure by many of our campuses or program offerings to satisfy the ACICS compliance standards with respect to Student Retention Rates or Graduate Placement Rates could cause us to close those campuses and reduce the offerings of those programs. Under the ACICS standards, if the Student Retention Rate or Graduate Placement Rate: • of a campus falls below the ACICS benchmark standards, the campus is required to develop and implement a campus improvement plan and periodically report its results to the ACICS; • of a campus falls below the ACICS compliance standards, the campus is required to come into compliance within a specified time period, or the ACICS may withdraw the campus’ inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation; • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS benchmark standards, the campus is required to develop and implement a program improvement plan for that program offering; or • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS compliance standards, the program offering is required to come into compliance within a specified time period, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of that program offering. A campus that falls below the ACICS: • benchmark standards is not required to obtain permission from the ACICS prior to applying to add a new program offering; or • compliance standards is required to obtain permission from the ACICS prior to applying to add a new program offering. One ITT Technical Institute location needs to raise its Student Retention Rate to at least 52% by November 1, 2014, or the ACICS may withdraw that location’s inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation. Three ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Graduate Placement Rates to at least 47% by November 1, 2014, or the ACICS may withdraw those locations’ inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation. A total of 81 program offerings at 50 ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Student Retention Rates to at least 52% by November 1, 2014, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of those program offerings. A total of 221 program offerings at 96 ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Graduate Placement Rates to at least 47% by November 1, 2014, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of those program offerings. If many of our campuses and/or program offerings fall below the ACICS compliance standards with respect to Student Retention Rates or Graduate Placement Rates and we were unable to timely bring those campuses and/or program offerings into compliance, we may have to close those campuses and reduce the offerings of those programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure of our programs of study offered in any state to qualify as credit hour programs, as opposed to clock hour programs, under the ED’s regulations would likely result in our students, who attend those programs, receiving less funds from Title IV Programs, may result in fewer students attending those programs and could result in financial penalties. The ED’s regulations related to determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours, as opposed to credit hours, are unclear. Students attending credit hour programs of study that are required to be measured in clock hours will likely receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education with respect to those programs of study. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. If we were to erroneously determine that a program of study is not required to measure student progress in clock hours, we would likely be liable for repayment of a portion of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that program of study based on the difference between the amount of funds those students received and the amount they were eligible to receive. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring investigations, claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to our campuses, which could require us to pay monetary damages, receive other sanctions and expend significant resources to defend those claims or actions. Due to the highly regulated nature of the postsecondary education industry, we are subject to investigations and claims of non-compliance with regulatory standards and other actions brought by regulatory agencies, students, shareholders and other parties. If the results of any of those investigations and claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, operational limitations, loss of eligibility to participate in federal or state financial aid programs, debarments, additional oversight and reporting, or other civil and criminal sanctions. Those sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we satisfactorily resolve the issues raised by those types of investigations and claims, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our -19- Table of Contents ongoing business operations to address and defend those investigations and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse publicity regarding any of those investigations and claims could also negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” On May 18, 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). The CFPB’s CID provides that the purpose of the investigation is, in part, “to determine whether for-profit post-secondary companies, student loan origination and servicing providers, or other unnamed persons have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or practices relating to the advertising, marketing, or origination of private student loans.” The CFPB’s CID contains broad requests for production of documents, answers to interrogatories and written reports related to private education loans made to our students and many other aspects of our business. We have provided documentation and other information to the CFPB, while preserving our rights to object to its inquiry. In August 2012, we filed a petition with the CFPB to set aside or modify the CFPB’s CID. We believe that our acts and practices relating to private education loans are lawful. On October 30, 2012, we received a CID from the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General (“MAG”). The MAG’s CID provides that the MAG is investigating allegations that we may have violated Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 93A, Section 2(a) by “engaging in unfair or deceptive practices in connection with marketing and advertising job placement and student outcomes, the recruitment of students, and the financing of education.” The MAG’s CID contains broad requests for production of documents related to our students in Massachusetts, including the financial aid available to those students, our recruitment of those students, the career services that we offer to those students, our marketing and advertising, the retention and graduation rates of those students and many other aspects of our business. We believe that our acts and practices relating to our students in Massachusetts are lawful. On February 8, 2013, we received a subpoena from the SEC. In a letter accompanying the subpoena, the SEC states that it is conducting an investigation of us. The SEC’s subpoena requests the production of documents and communications that, among other things, relate to our actions and accounting associated with: (a) agreements that we entered into with an unaffiliated entity on February 20, 2009 (the “2009 Entity”) to create a program that made private education loans available to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources did not cover (the “2009 Loan Program”), including, without limitation, a risk sharing agreement that we entered into with the 2009 Entity pursuant to which we guarantee the repayment of the principal amount (including capitalized origination fees) and accrued interest payable on any private education loans that are charged off above a certain percentage of the private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program, based on the annual dollar volume (the “2009 RSA”); and (b) agreements that we entered into with unrelated parties on January 20, 2010 to create a program, called the PEAKS Private Student Loan Program, that made private education loans available to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources did not cover (the “PEAKS Program”), pursuant to which: • an unaffiliated lender originated private education loans to our eligible students and, subsequently, sold those loans to an unaffiliated trust that purchased, owns and collects private education loans (the “PEAKS Trust”); • the PEAKS Trust issued senior debt in the aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the “PEAKS Senior Debt”) to investors; and • we guarantee payment of the principal, interest and, prior to February 2013, certain call premiums owed on the PEAKS Senior Debt, the administrative fees and expenses of the PEAKS Trust and the required ratio of assets of the PEAKS Trust to outstanding PEAKS Senior Debt (the “PEAKS Guarantee”). We are cooperating with the SEC in its investigation. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate outcome of the SEC investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. The operations of a number of companies in the postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, SEC, ED, Government Accountability Office, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, state education and professional licensing authorities, states’ attorney general offices or other state agencies. These investigations and actions have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage that may negatively affect public perceptions of proprietary education institutions, including the ITT Technical Institutes and Daniel Webster College. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the proprietary education sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenue and profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. These allegations, reviews, investigations and enforcement actions and the accompanying adverse publicity could also result in increased scrutiny of, and have a negative impact on, us and our industry. Changes in the amount or availability of veterans’ educational benefits or Department of Defense tuition assistance programs could materially and adversely affect our business. Certain members of the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration have recently increased their focus on Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans educational benefits that are used for programs of study offered at proprietary education institutions, particularly distance education programs of study. On April 27, 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13607, Establishing Principles of Excellence for Educational Institutions Serving Service Members, Veterans, Spouses, and Other Family Members (the “EO”). The EO requires an institution -20- Table of Contents to agree to comply with the principles of excellence described in the EO in order for the institution to participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program for Veterans under the Post-9/11 GI Bill or the Tuition Assistance Program for active duty service members. Among other things, the principles of excellence include a requirement that institutions implement a refund policy for veterans and service members that is aligned with the Return Policy. In addition, certain members of Congress have introduced legislation that would revise the 90/10 Rule to count Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans’ educational benefits toward the 90% limit. To the extent that any laws, regulations or other requirements are adopted that limit or condition the amount of educational benefits that veterans and active duty service members can use toward their costs of education at proprietary education institutions or in distance education programs, or that limit or condition the participation of proprietary education institutions or distance education programs in military tuition assistance programs or in Title IV Programs with respect to military tuition assistance programs, our enrollments, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If the graduates of some of our programs are unable to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study, the enrollment in and the revenue derived from those programs could decrease and claims could be made against us that could be costly to defend. Graduates of certain of our programs of study offered through our Breckinridge School of Nursing and Health Sciences seek professional licensure in their chosen field following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including: • the merits of the individual student; and • whether the campus and the program were authorized by the appropriate SAs and/or approved by an accrediting commission and/or professional association. Certain SAs have refused to license students who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of accreditation, residency or other state requirements. In the event that one or more SAs refuses to recognize our graduates for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our campuses or their programs, student enrollment in those programs would be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to claims that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively identify, establish and operate new campuses and learning sites, our growth may be slowed. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate operating new campuses and adding learning sites to existing campuses at locations throughout the United States. Establishing new campuses and learning sites poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of existing campuses. We have determined to delay new location openings and, therefore, do not plan to begin operations at any new campuses or learning sites in 2013. To operate a new campus or add a learning site, we would be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the applicable SAs and ACs, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, a new campus or learning site must be certified by the ED, either before or after it starts disbursing Title IV Program funds to its students. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new campuses or learning sites. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established campuses or learning sites could slow our growth, make any newly established campuses or learning sites more costly to operate than we had planned and have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Geographically Expand the Delivery of our Educational Offerings.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively identify, develop, obtain approval to offer and teach new programs at different levels in a cost-effective and timely manner. Part of our business strategy also includes increasing the number, levels, lengths and disciplines of programs offered at our campuses. Developing and offering new programs pose challenges and require us to make investments in research and development, management and capital expenditures, to incur marketing and advertising expenses and to devote other resources that are in addition to, and in some cases greater than, those associated with our current program offerings. In order to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses, we may be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the ED, SAs, ACs and, in certain circumstances, specialized programmatic accrediting commissions, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could affect the programs offered at our campuses. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify new programs to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion, that we will be able to obtain the requisite authorizations to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses or that students will enroll in any new programs that we offer at our campuses. Any failure by us to effectively identify, develop, obtain authorization to offer and teach new programs at our campuses could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Enhance Results at Each Institution.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technical skills and also appropriate soft skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. The skills that employees need may evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in -21- Table of Contents response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by the employers we serve or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates. The awareness of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates is important to the success of our campuses. If we were unable to successfully market or advertise our programs, our ability to attract and enroll prospective students in our programs would be adversely affected and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability would be impaired. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing or advertising our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • employer dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • high costs of certain types of advertising media; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or proprietary education generally; • our failure to maintain or expand our brands or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and • diminished access to students during their attendance in high schools. If the charge-off rate on private education loans under programs where we have a guarantee obligation continues at the current rate, or is higher than the current rate, our guarantee obligations related to those loans could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into risk sharing and guarantee agreements with unaffiliated entities related to private education loans provided to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources does not cover. We have settled all of our guarantee obligations under a risk sharing agreement that we entered into in 2007 (the “2007 RSA”) through a payment of $46.0 million in January 2013. Under the 2009 RSA, we guarantee the repayment of any private education loans that are charged off above a certain percentage of the private education loans made under the 2009 RSA, based on dollar volume. Under the PEAKS Program, we guarantee: • the payment of principal, interest and, prior to February 2013, certain call premiums on the outstanding senior debt obligations (i.e., $271 million as of December 31, 2012) of the PEAKS Trust that holds the private education loans made under the PEAKS Program; • the payment of administrative fees and expenses to that trust; and • that the required ratio of assets to outstanding senior debt obligations of that trust will be maintained. Our obligations under the 2009 RSA and the PEAKS Program (collectively, the “RSAs”) will remain in effect until all private education loans made under that RSA or the senior debt obligation, as applicable, are paid in full or charged off. In 2012, we made guarantee and other payments, net of recoveries, of approximately $16.9 million under the 2009 RSA and PEAKS Program. We are not able to estimate the maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make under the RSAs. The maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make pursuant to our guarantee obligations under the RSAs are affected by various factors. See Notes 11 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The principal factor that affects the amount of future guarantee payments is the repayment performance of the private education loans under the RSAs. To date, the charge-off rate on the private education loans has been higher, and the timing of charge-offs has been earlier, than we originally projected. In certain reporting periods, there have been disruptions in the servicing of a portion of the private education loans under the RSAs, which we believe has negatively impacted the repayment performance of those private education loans. We cannot predict with any certainty the extent to which the servicing disruptions may affect the repayment performance of those loans in future periods, or whether servicing disruptions will occur in the future. If the charge-off rate on the private education loans under the RSAs continues at the current rate, or is higher than the current rate, due to a broader change in borrower repayment behavior, additional servicing disruptions and/or any other reason, we could be required to pay additional material amounts under our guarantee obligations, including amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the PEAKS Senior Debt to an amount sufficient to satisfy the required ratio of assets of the PEAKS Trust to outstanding PEAKS Senior Debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At the end of each reporting period, we assess whether we should recognize a contingent liability related to the various claims and contingencies that we are subject to, including those related to litigation, business transactions, guarantee arrangements and employee-related matters, among others. As of December 31, 2012, our recorded liability for these claims and contingencies was approximately $123.4 million, the substantial majority of which pertained to our guarantee obligations under the RSAs and $46.0 million of which pertained to the settlement of the 2007 RSA. We believe that it is reasonably possible that we may incur losses in an estimated range of $12.0 million less than to $40.0 million greater than the recorded liability for the RSAs. -22- Table of Contents Increases in internal student financing and institutional scholarships could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, revenue and student population. In 2011, we derived approximately 7% of our cash receipts from unaffiliated, private education loan programs that were made available to eligible students at our campuses to help fund a portion of the students’ cost of education. The vast majority of these private education loans were made under two programs, which expired in 2011. In 2012, we derived an insignificant amount of our cash receipts from unaffiliated, private education loan providers. This decrease between 2011 and 2012 was primarily due to the general unavailability of private education loan programs to our students in 2012. As a result, in 2012, we increased the amount of internal student financing that we provided to our students. The internal student financing that we provide to our students consists of non-interest bearing, unsecured credit extended to our students, and the increase in internal student financing has led to a corresponding increase in our accounts receivable. The increased amount of internal student financing that we provided to our students as a result of the expiration of the two primary private education loan programs for our students in 2011 has negatively impacted our liquidity and exposed us to greater credit risk. Internal student financing typically provides for payment to us by our students by the end of the student’s academic year or enrollment, whichever occurs first, compared to payments from private education loan programs, which we typically received at the beginning of a student’s academic year. This change in the timing of payments had a material adverse effect on our cash flows from operations in 2012. In addition, we have the risk of collection with respect to our internal student financing, which caused us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts in 2012 and resulted in an increase in our bad debt expense as a percentage of revenue in 2012. The increase in internal student financing was the primary cause of the increase in our days sales outstanding and the decrease in our deferred revenue in 2012, primarily due to the decrease in the amount of funds received from private education loans made to our students by third-party lenders. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we introduced an institutional scholarship program, called the Opportunity Scholarship, which is intended to help reduce the cost of an ITT Technical Institute education and increase student access to our programs of study. We believe that the Opportunity Scholarship will reduce our students’ need and use of private education loans. Accordingly, we do not expect unaffiliated private education loans to be a significant component of the student financial aid made available to our students in future periods. As a result, we expect that we will receive little, if any, cash payments from private education loan lenders related to our students’ cost of education in 2013. As an institutional scholarship, in addition to us not receiving any cash payment when amounts are awarded under the Opportunity Scholarship, students will not be obligated to make payments to us of amounts awarded under the Opportunity Scholarship and, therefore, we believe that the amounts receivable from students to us, as well as our revenue, should also decrease in 2013, if we continue the roll-out of the Opportunity Scholarship as planned. We plan to introduce the Opportunity Scholarship program at most, if not all, of our ITT Technical Institute locations in 2013. Based on the amount of Opportunity Scholarships that we estimate may be awarded in 2013, we believe that the Opportunity Scholarships, as well as, to a lesser extent, other factors, will have the effect of reducing our revenue per student by approximately 4.0 to 6.0 percent in 2013 compared to 2012. We may continue to provide internal student financing and scholarships to our students and/or assist our students in identifying other sources of financial aid to replace our students’ loss of access to private education loans, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Further, even if private education loans are made available to our students, prospective and current students may determine that the borrowing costs associated with private education loans are too expensive and cause them to abandon or delay their education. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. If we experience losses in excess of the amounts that we have reserved with respect to the significant amount of internal student financing that we have provided to our students, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We offer internal student financing to help students pay the portion of their cost of education that is not covered by financial aid or other funds. These balances are unsecured and not typically guaranteed. These balances have increased significantly in 2012 as a result of the number of our students who did not qualify for private education loans from third parties due to their prior credit history and the limited funding available under private education loan programs for which those students could qualify. These balances could become more significant in the future, particularly if our students are unable to obtain other, additional amounts of financial aid and/or we do not increase the amount of scholarships awarded. Increases in internal student financing adversely affect our cash flows and expose us to greater credit risk. Although we have reserved for estimated losses related to unpaid student balances, losses in excess of the amount we have reserved for bad debts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High interest rates and tightening of the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students and could increase our risk exposure. Since much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates, higher interest rates cause a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and, consequently, in our revenue. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program and private education loans. High default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, trigger our guarantee obligations with respect to private education loan programs and/or negatively affect the willingness of private lenders to make private education loan programs available to our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. -23- Table of Contents In addition, tighter credit markets have caused lenders to alter the terms of private education loans that they offer in ways that are not beneficial to our student and parent borrowers, such as: • changing the terms and pricing of their private education loans in ways that are less favorable to borrowers; • reducing or eliminating borrower benefits on private education loans; and • becoming more selective in originating private education loans, which could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history to borrow the necessary funds to pay their cost of education. As a result of those adverse effects on our students’ ability to finance their cost of education, our receivables could increase and/or our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, a tighter credit market could cause other lenders to seek contractual terms from us related to private education loans that increase our exposure to credit risk. Our loss of key personnel could harm our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school administrators and corporate management. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services. Our ability to develop a strong team of employees with these responsibilities may be affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to timely and effectively train and motivate our employees in order for them to become productive; • restrictions imposed by regulatory bodies on the method of compensating employees, such as the Incentive Compensation Prohibition; • our ability to attract enough prospective students to our program offerings; and • our ability to effectively manage a multi-institutional and multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services, our operations would be adversely affected. Competition could decrease our market share or force us to increase spending. The postsecondary education market in the United States is highly fragmented and competitive, with no single private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. Our campuses compete for students with degree—and nondegree-granting institutions, which include public and private nonprofit colleges and proprietary institutions, as well as with alternatives to higher education, such as military service or immediate employment. Certain public and private colleges offer programs similar to those offered by our campuses at a lower tuition cost due in part to government subsidies, foundation grants, tax deductible contributions or other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. Other proprietary institutions offer programs that compete with those of our campuses. Certain of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have greater financial and other resources than we do. All of these factors could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. We may be required to increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on our seasonal student enrollment patterns. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our quarterly results of operations have tended to fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in our total student population. Our student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our revenue in our third and fourth fiscal quarters has generally benefited from increased student matriculations. The number of new students entering our campuses is typically higher in September. Our campuses’ academic schedule generally does not affect our incurrence of most of our costs, however, and our costs do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We believe that quarterly fluctuations in results of operations should continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. These patterns may change, however, as a result of increased enrollment of adult students. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Variations in Quarterly Results of Operations.” -24- Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions of other schools or education-related businesses in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others: • regulatory approvals; • significant capital expenditures; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities; • our ability to control costs; and • our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in: • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets; • charges relating to integration costs; and • an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have an adverse effect on our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could disrupt our operations. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, violent acts and threats of future attacks could adversely affect the U.S. and world economies. Finally, future terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict that could further impact our operations and result in prospective students, as well as our current students and employees, entering military service. These factors could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God could have an adverse effect on our operations. Hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters and acts of God could disrupt our operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, natural disasters could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses in that region and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, as well as required approvals by the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our By-Laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Those provisions could: • limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock; • discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change in control of us (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Certain of those provisions authorize us to: • issue “blank check” preferred stock; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes expiring in rotation; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs have requirements pertaining to the change in ownership and/or control (collectively “change in control”) of institutions, but these requirements do not uniformly define what constitutes a change in control and are subject to varying interpretations as to whether a particular transaction constitutes a change in control. If we or any of our campuses experience a change in control under the standards of the ED, the ACs or the SAs, we or the affected -25- Table of Contents campuses must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. Transactions or events that constitute a change in control for one or more of our regulatory agencies include: • the acquisition of a school from another entity; • significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock; and • significant changes to the composition of our, or any campus, Board of Directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, a required approval of any change in control from the relevant regulatory agencies could impair our ability or the ability of the affected campuses to participate in Title IV Programs, or could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in one or more states until we receive the required approval. A material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would result if we had a change in control and a material number of our campuses: • failed to timely obtain the approvals of the SAs required prior to or following a change in control; • failed to timely regain approval by the ACs for inclusion in their institution’s grant of accreditation or have their inclusion in that accreditation temporarily continued or reinstated by the ACs; • failed to timely regain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs from the ED or receive temporary certification to continue to participate in Title IV Programs pending further review by the ED; or • were subjected by the ED to restrictions that severely limited for a substantial period of time the number of new additional locations and/or new programs of study that are eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. The fact that a change in control would require approval of the relevant regulatory agencies, and the uncertainty and potential delay related to obtaining such approvals, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. If we are unable to conclude successfully litigation against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the ordinary conduct of our business, we are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students or graduates and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage to resolve those matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. See “Legal Proceedings.” The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding prospective students, students, their families and employees. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could subject us to costly claims or litigation, have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. Potential new federal or state laws and regulations also may increase our costs of compliance or limit our ability to use personal information to recruit students. Security breaches or system interruptions or delays involving our computer networks could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, limit our ability to attract and retain students and require us to expend significant resources. The performance and reliability of our computer systems are critical to our information management, reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could disrupt the provision of education to students attending our campuses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand the infrastructure of our computer systems on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand. Our computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to attract and retain students. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of those security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by those breaches. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. -26- Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to distinctive marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use the “ITT” and related marks and course content developed by our faculty, our other employees and third party content experts. We cannot assure you that those measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect those rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our names, curricula and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by those attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in those disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content or mode of delivery of a course or a program of study. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights, such as certain patent rights, may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid infringing upon those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation, regardless of whether the claim has merit. Our insurance coverage may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content or mode of delivery of our courses or programs of study, or pay significant monetary damages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. Those factors include, among others: • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or changes in the way that laws, regulations and accreditation standards are interpreted and applied; • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto; • negative media reports with respect to us and/or our industry; • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have affected the market prices of many companies in the proprietary, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • the availability of financing for our students; • the short interest in our stock at any point in time; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. Those factors could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which those shares were purchased. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 