Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision with respect to any shares of our common stock. This report contains certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, our management. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our or our management’s current views and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the following Risk Factors. Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements in 2014 and beyond could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, those forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Recent Developments Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our future financial statements and may adversely affect our business and stock price. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”), as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management identified material weaknesses in our ICFR related to: • the assessment of events that could affect the determination of whether we are the primary beneficiary of variable interest entities in which we hold a variable interest; • the assessment of the completeness and accuracy of the data maintained by the servicer of the private education loans that are owned by a variable interest entity that we were required to consolidate; • the review of assumptions and methodologies developed by third-party consultants to project guarantee obligations under the 2009 RSA (as defined below); and • the timely identification and communication of information relevant to the private education loan programs to those members of our management who are responsible for our financial reporting processes. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in ICFR, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weaknesses discussed above, our management concluded that our ICFR was not effective as of December 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our ICFR will not be identified in the future. Although we are implementing remedial measures designed to address the identified material weaknesses, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our ICFR are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements. These misstatements could result in additional restatements of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a default under our credit agreement, reduce our ability to obtain financing, increase the cost of any financing that we obtain or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Although we are working to remedy the ineffectiveness of our ICFR, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented or the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented and considered complete, our management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future consolidated financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. For more information relating to our ICFR (and disclosure controls and procedures) and the remediation plan undertaken by us, see Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Matters relating to or arising from our review of accounting matters related to two third-party private education loan programs made available to our students may adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. As previously disclosed, a number of factors, including SEC’s investigation of us related to our actions and accounting associated with, among other things, two third-party private education loan programs made available to our students, have led to us conducting additional analyses and reviews with respect to accounting matters related to those programs. As a result of such additional analyses and reviews, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors concluded that the PEAKS Trust should have been consolidated in our consolidated financial statements beginning on February 28, 2013, and that our previously issued unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013 should be restated. To date, we have incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting and other professional services in connection with the SEC’s investigation of us, the accounting analyses and the restatement and related matters, and may continue to incur significant additional expenses with regard to those matters and our remediation efforts. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as senior members of our finance and accounting departments, have spent substantial amounts of time and effort with regard to all of those matters. The significant amount of time and effort spent by our management team on those matters has diverted, and is expected to continue to divert, their attention from the operation of our business. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on those matters, and the diversion of the attention of the management team which has occurred and is expected to continue, have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. -15- Table of Contents We have restated our prior unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, which may lead to additional risks and uncertainties, including shareholder litigation, loss of investor confidence and negative impacts on our stock price. As a result of the determination in June 2014 that the PEAKS Trust should have been consolidated in our consolidated financial statements as of February 28, 2013, we have restated our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013. We have incurred significant costs and expenses, and our management’s attention has been diverted, due to the restatements. Restatements may also increase the risk of additional shareholder litigation against us. In addition, the fact that we have restated our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements may lead to a loss of investor confidence and have negative impacts on the trading price of our common stock. The New York Stock Exchange could commence procedures to delist our common stock. As a result of our failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, on March 19, 2014, we received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that we were subject to the procedures set forth in the NYSE’s listing standards related to late filings. In accordance with the NYSE’s procedures, we initially had six months following March 18, 2014 to file this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. On September 18, 2014, however, the NYSE granted our request for a listing extension, through November 15, 2014. Although we have filed this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC within the extension period, the listing standards of the NYSE provide the NYSE with broad discretion regarding delisting matters. One of the factors described in the NYSE’s listing standards that could lead to a company’s delisting is the failure of the company to make timely, adequate and accurate disclosures of information to its shareholders and the investing public. We have not yet filed with the SEC our 2014 First Quarter Form 10-Q, which was due on May 12, 2014, or our 2014 Second Quarter Form 10-Q, which was due on August 11, 2014, and we have restated our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013. We cannot assure you that the NYSE will not commence delisting procedures with respect to our common stock as a result of those and other factors related to us. If the NYSE were to delist our common stock, the delisting could: • decrease trading in our common stock; • adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock; • decrease the trading price of our common stock; • increase the volatility of our common stock price; • decrease analyst coverage of our common stock; • decrease investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume of our common stock; • make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell our common stock; and • harm our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the SEC limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, and could have negative consequences related to our credit agreement. We did not file this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2014 First Quarter Form 10-Q and our 2014 Second Quarter Form 10-Q within the timeframe required by the SEC. As a result of our late filings, we may be limited in our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we believe would be beneficial to our business. We are ineligible to use shorter and less costly filings, such as Form S-3, to register our securities for sale for a period of 12 months following the month in which we regain compliance with our SEC reporting obligations. Further, if we are not able to furnish to our lenders our condensed consolidated financial statements (and related certificates) as of and for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014 by November 15, 2014, or our condensed consolidated financial statements (and related certificates) as of and for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2014 by December 15, 2014, we would be in breach of our credit agreement, which could give rise to material adverse consequences to us. See “— If we default under our Amended Credit Agreement, any borrowings must be repaid, we may be prevented from further borrowings and from obtaining or maintaining a letter of credit and/or the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to comply with our obligations.” As a result of the Consolidation, our consolidated financial statements are materially different from those that we have previously issued, which could have negative implications for our credit agreement and guarantee obligations and regulatory compliance. Prior to the Consolidation, the PEAKS Trust was not included in our consolidated financial statements. As a result of the Consolidation, beginning on February 28, 2013, our consolidated financial statements are substantially different from the consolidated financial statements that we would present, if we were not required to consolidate the PEAKS Trust. The Consolidation and other factors have resulted in violations of covenants under our credit agreement. Although we have obtained waivers and amendments relating to those violations, we cannot assure you that the financial impact of the Consolidation on our consolidated financial statements in future periods will not violate the covenants under our credit agreement. We may not be able to obtain additional amendments to, or waivers of, those covenants. The Consolidation also negatively impacted our compliance with the ED’s financial responsibility measurements, primarily our institutions’ composite score and our compliance with the financial requirements of certain SAs. The financial impact of the Consolidation on our consolidated financial statements in future periods could also negatively impact our compliance with those measurements and requirements in the future. See “—Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry – We may be subject to sanctions, including, without limitation, an increase in the amount of the ED Letter of Credit and other limitations in order to continue our campuses’ -16- Table of Contents participation in Title IV Programs, state authorization and accreditation, if we or our campuses do not meet the financial standards of the ED, SAs or ACs,” for a discussion of the impact of the Consolidation on our consolidated financial statements. Further, the Consolidation negatively impacted the financial metrics to which we are subject under the private education loan programs under which we have provided guarantees, resulting in materially increased payment amounts. The financial impact of the Consolidation on our consolidated financial statements in future periods could negatively impact our compliance with those financial metrics in the future, resulting in materially increased payment amounts. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. We believe that we will be required to consolidate the 2009 Entity into our consolidated financial statements in the foreseeable future, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements and our compliance with covenants and metrics to which we are subject. In addition to the PEAKS Trust, we hold a variable interest in an unaffiliated entity (the “2009 Entity”) with which we entered into a risk sharing agreement on February 20, 2009 (the “2009 RSA”). Under the 2009 RSA, we guarantee the repayment of the principal amount (including capitalized origination fees) and accrued interest payable on private education loans that are charged off above a certain percentage, based on the annual dollar volume, of the private education loans made under a program that made private education loans available to our students to help pay our students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state or other sources did not cover (the “2009 Loan Program”). We may become the primary beneficiary of the 2009 Entity and, as a result, be required to consolidate the 2009 Entity in our consolidated financial statements, if the entity that performs the servicing activities for the private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program on behalf of the 2009 Entity (the “2009 Loan Program Servicer”) fails to meet certain performance criteria specified in the servicing agreement that governs the servicing activities of those loans (the “2009 Servicing Agreement”). If the 2009 Loan Program Servicer fails to meet those performance criteria, we have the right to terminate the 2009 Servicing Agreement and, therefore, would be considered to have the power to direct the activities of the 2009 Entity that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 2009 Entity. If that occurs, we would be required to consolidate the 2009 Entity into our consolidated financial statements. Based on preliminary loan performance data as of September 30, 2014 that we have received regarding the private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program, we believe that, as of September 30, 2014, the 2009 Loan Program Servicer may not have met the performance criteria specified in the 2009 Servicing Agreement. As a result, it appears likely that the 2009 Loan Program Servicer either has failed, or within the foreseeable future will fail, to meet the performance criteria in the 2009 Servicing Agreement. Once that occurs, following a cure period and that assuming that no cure occurs, we will have the right to terminate the 2009 Servicing Agreement. As a result of that right, we will be required to consolidate the 2009 Entity into our consolidated financial statements. We believe that our right to terminate the 2009 Servicing Agreement will become operative in late 2014 or early 2015. At this time, we are unable to quantify the impact of the consolidation of the 2009 Entity into our consolidated financial statements, but it could have material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Further, the consolidation of the 2009 Entity into our consolidated financial statements could cause us to violate certain covenants under our credit agreement, financial standards of the ED, SAs and ACs and financial metrics under the 2009 RSA and PEAKS Program to which we are subject. Any of those violations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. If we default under our Amended Credit Agreement, any borrowings must be repaid, we may be prevented from further borrowings and from obtaining or maintaining a letter of credit and/or the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to comply with our obligations. On March 21, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement and on March 31, 2014, May 29, 2014, June 30, 2014, July 30, 2014 and September 15, 2014, we entered into amendments to the credit agreement. The credit agreement, as so amended, is referred to herein as the “Amended Credit Agreement.” The Amended Credit Agreement contains, among other things, covenants, representations and warranties and events of default customary for credit facilities. We are required to maintain compliance with a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a minimum liquidity amount, and several covenants related to the ED’s regulations. The Amended Credit Agreement also requires us, among other things, to timely deliver our consolidated financial statements to the lenders. In addition, we would be in default under the Amended Credit Agreement, if we default under our obligations associated with: • our guarantee of the payment of the principal, interest and, prior to February 2013, certain call premiums owed on the senior debt issued by the PEAKS Trust in the aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the “PEAKS Senior Debt”) to investors, the administrative fees and expenses of the PEAKS Trust and a minimum required ratio of assets of the PEAKS Trust to outstanding PEAKS Senior Debt (the “PEAKS Guarantee”); or • the 2009 RSA. The PEAKS Guarantee and 2009 RSA are collectively referred to herein as the “RSAs.” We would also be in default under the Amended Credit Agreement if, among other things, the ED imposes a delay of more than five days in our receipt of Title IV Program funds. See “—Our institutions’ failure to submit their audited consolidated financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED by the due date resulted in sanctions imposed by the ED on our institutions that include, among other things, our institutions having to post a letter of credit, being placed on heightened cash monitoring and, being provisionally certified.” Further, the Amended Credit Agreement reduces the amount of secured indebtedness that we are permitted to incur and further limits our ability to dispose of or encumber our assets. -17- Table of Contents The Consolidation, restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, delay in the completion of our 2013 audited consolidated financial statements and first and second quarter 2014 unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and other factors, have required us to obtain waivers and amendments of various provisions of the Amended Credit Agreement. Although we have obtained waivers and amendments relating to those violations, we cannot assure you that the financial impact of the Consolidation in future periods, actions taken by the ED affecting us or other factors relating to recent or future events affecting us, will not violate the covenants, or constitute a default by us, under the Amended Credit Agreement. We may not be able to obtain additional amendments to, or waivers of, those covenants or events of default. If we are unable to obtain a waiver of those events of default or an amendment to the Amended Credit Agreement that would allow us to be in compliance with those covenants or otherwise not be in default under the Amended Credit Agreement, the lenders would have various remedies, including: • the lending commitments under the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated; • our ability to request the issuance of letters of credit and to obtain amendments, extensions or renewals of letters of credit already issued under the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated; • all then outstanding borrowings and other amounts owed under the Amended Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable; and • we could be required to provide cash collateral (in an amount equal to 109% of the face amount of a letter of credit issued for the benefit of the ED and 103% of the face amount of all other issued letters of credit) for our obligations with respect to outstanding letters of credit, if that cash collateral has not already been posted. We may not be able to repay outstanding borrowings or other amounts, or be able to post the required cash collateral. In the event that we, or our subsidiary guarantor, do not pay in full, upon demand, all of our outstanding borrowings and other amounts owed under the Amended Credit Agreement or do not provide, upon demand, the cash collateral for our letter of credit obligations, the lenders would be entitled to recourse against the collateral security that we and our subsidiary guarantor have provided to obtain payment of amounts we owe or are required to provide, as cash collateral. The collateral security consists of: • substantially all of our and our subsidiary guarantor’s personal property; and • all of the real property owned by us (other than the real property used by DWC), which consists of 30 separate parcels of land, and all of the improvements thereto and fixtures thereon. In addition, even if we were able to repay the outstanding borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement, the use of funds to make that repayment would have a material adverse effect on our cash position and would significantly reduce the amount of funds available to us to satisfy our obligations under the PEAKS Guarantee and the 2009 RSA, which could result in a default by us under those arrangements. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, ability to meet our obligations, ability to comply with regulatory requirements, financial condition and cash flows. A default by us under the Amended Credit Agreement could also lead to a determination by: • the ED that our institutions are not financially responsible; • the ACs that our institutions are not financially stable; and/or • one or more of the SAs that our institutions do not satisfy the SAs’ financial requirements. If the ED, ACs and/or SAs determines that our institutions do not satisfy the applicable financial requirements, these agencies could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on our campuses; • terminate or limit our campuses’ operations or ability to award credentials; • restrict or revoke our campuses’ accreditation; • limit, terminate or suspend our campuses’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require our campuses to repay funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit or increase the amounts of existing letters of credit; • subject our institutions to heightened cash monitoring by the ED; • transfer our institutions from the ED’s advance system of receiving Title IV Program funds to its reimbursement system, which would significantly delay our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds; and • subject us or our campuses to other penalties. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and impose significant operating restrictions on us. If any of our campuses lost its state authorization, the campus would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the campus. -18- Table of Contents In addition, the Amended Credit Agreement expires on March 21, 2015. We cannot assure you that we will be able to extend the term of the Amended Credit Agreement or refinance outstanding borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, ability to meet our obligations, ability to comply with regulatory requirements, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry Failure of our campuses to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students or loss of our authorization to operate our campuses. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate SAs, be accredited by an AC recognized by the ED and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. As a result, our ITT Technical Institute and DWC campuses are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, SAs and ACs, which cover the vast majority of our operations. The ED, SAs and ACs periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or implemented or whether all of our campuses will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. If our campuses failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on our campuses; • terminate or limit our campuses’ operations or ability to award credentials; • restrict or revoke our campuses’ accreditation; • limit, terminate or suspend our campuses’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require our campuses to repay funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to increase the amount of the letter of credit that we are required to submit to the ED; • subject our institutions to heightened cash monitoring by the ED; • transfer our institutions from the ED’s advance system of receiving Title IV Program funds to its reimbursement system, which would significantly delay our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds; and • subject us or our campuses to other civil or criminal penalties. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry,” for a discussion of the sanctions imposed on us by our Florida SA as a result of its determination that our 13 campuses in Florida are not financially stable. The sanctions imposed by our Florida SA or any sanctions described above that could be imposed by other agencies could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. If any of our campuses lost its state authorization, the campus would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the campus. If any of our campuses lost its accreditation, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and, in some states, its ability to operate. If we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending a campus that lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, we could be forced to close that campus. Closing multiple campuses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” The following are some of the specific risk factors related to our highly regulated industry: Our institutions’ failure to submit their audited consolidated financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED by the due date resulted in sanctions imposed by the ED on our institutions that include, among other things, our institutions having to post a letter of credit, being placed on heightened cash monitoring and being provisionally certified. Our institutions are subject to extensive regulation by the ED. One of the ED’s regulations applicable to our institutions is that each institution must submit to the ED its audited, consolidated financial statements and a Compliance Audit, in each case with respect to a fiscal year within six months of the following year. Our institutions did not submit their 2013 audited consolidated financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED by June 30, 2014 and, as a result, the ED determined on August 21, 2014 that our institutions are not financially responsible. Based on this determination, the ED, among other things: • requires our institutions to submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in the amount of $79.7 million (the “ED Letter of Credit”); • placed our institutions on heightened cash monitoring by the ED, instead of the ED’s standard advance payment method; • provisionally certified our institutions to participate in Title IV Programs; • requires our institutions to provide the ED with information about certain oversight and financial events, as described further below; • requires us to be able to demonstrate to the ED that, for our two most recent fiscal years, we were current on our debt payments and our institutions have met all of their financial obligations, pursuant to the ED’s standards; and • could require our institutions, in future years, to submit their audited financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED earlier than six months following the end of their fiscal year. -19- Table of Contents We are required to submit the ED Letter of Credit on or before November 4, 2014. The term of the ED Letter of Credit must be for a period that ends on November 4, 2019. We will be required to adjust the amount of the ED Letter of Credit annually to 10% of the Title IV Program funds received by our institutions in the immediately preceding fiscal year. The ED may terminate our institutions’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, if we fail to: • submit an irrevocable letter of credit payable to the ED in the required amount and for the appropriate term on or before November 4, 2014; or • annually adjust the amount of the letter of credit to the appropriate amount. Under heightened cash monitoring (“HCM”), before any of our institutions can request or draw down Title IV Program funds from the ED, the institution must: • make disbursements to students and parents for the amount of Title IV Program funds that those students and parents are eligible to receive; and • compile borrower-level records with respect to the disbursement of Title IV Program funds to each student and parent. Once the HCM requirements are satisfied, our institutions may request or draw down Title IV Program funds from the ED in an amount equal to the actual disbursements made by our institutions. Our institutions will be subject to HCM until at least November 4, 2019. Although we have implemented procedures to address the HCM requirements, and believe that compliance with those requirements will not impact the timing of our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds by more than one business day, we cannot assure you that there will not be future delays in our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds or that our institutions will not request or draw down Title IV Program funds from the ED before the HCM requirements are satisfied. If any of our institutions request or draw down Title IV Program funds from the ED before the HCM requirements are satisfied, the ED could impose additional sanctions on our institutions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including, among other things: • monetary fines or penalties; • limiting, terminating or suspending our institutions’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs; and/or • transferring our institutions from the HCM method of receiving Title IV Program funds to the ED’s reimbursement system, which would significantly delay our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds. Any significant delay in our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause us to be in default of the Amended Credit Agreement. See “—If we default under our Amended Credit Agreement, any borrowings must be repaid, we may be prevented from further borrowings and from obtaining or maintaining a letter of credit and/or the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to comply with our obligations.” Our institutions will be provisionally certified by the ED to participate in Title IV Programs until at least November 4, 2019. Any institution provisionally certified by the ED must apply for and receive approval by the ED for any substantial change, before the institution can award, disburse or distribute Title IV Program funds based on the substantial change. Substantial changes generally include, but are not limited to: • the establishment of an additional location; • an increase in the level of academic offering beyond those listed in the institution’s Eligibility and Certification Approval Report with the ED; • an addition of any eligible non-degree education program or short-term training program; or • an addition of a degree program by a proprietary institution. If an institution applies for the ED’s approval of a substantial change, the institution must demonstrate that it has the financial and administrative resources necessary to assure the institution’s continued compliance with the ED’s standards of financial responsibility and administrative capability. If we are unable to obtain the required approvals from the ED for any new campuses or learning sites, or any new program offerings, or to obtain those approvals in a timely manner, our ability to operate the new campuses, add the learning sites or offer new programs as planned would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. See “—We cannot operate new campuses, add learning sites or offer new programs, if they are not timely authorized by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs, if we do not obtain prior authorization.” We are required to provide information to the ED about any of the following events within 10 days of its occurrence: • any adverse action, including probation or similar action, taken against any of our institutions by its AC, any of its SAs or any federal agency; • any event that causes us to realize any liability that was noted as a contingent liability in our most recent audited financial statements; • any violation by us of any loan agreement; -20- Table of Contents • any failure by us to make a payment in accordance with our debt obligations that results in a creditor filing suit to recover funds under those obligations; • any withdrawal of our shareholders’ equity or net assets by any means, including the declaration of a dividend; • any extraordinary loss by us, as defined under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30; or • any filing of a petition by us for relief in bankruptcy court. Our notice to the ED of the occurrence of any of the above events, must include the details of the circumstances surrounding the event and, if applicable, the steps we have taken, or plan to take, to resolve the issue. The sanctions imposed on us by the ED described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to meet our contractual and regulatory obligations. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to submit the ED Letter of Credit in the amount and for the term required by the ED, that we will be able to provide the cash collateral required to maintain the ED Letter of Credit or that we will be able to obtain any required annual increases in the amount of the ED Letter of Credit. Our provision of the cash required under the Amended Credit Agreement to collateralize the ED Letter of Credit will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, and will significantly reduce the amount of cash that we will have available for other purposes, including to satisfy our future payment obligations under the RSAs. The fact that a significant amount of our cash will be held in connection with the ED Letter of Credit could also negatively affect our ability to satisfy the financial metrics of the ED, SAs and ACs to which we are subject. Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV Programs. The U.S. Congress enacted the HEA to be reauthorized on a periodic basis, which most recently occurred in 2008. If our efforts to comply with the provisions of the HEA are inconsistent with how the ED interprets the HEA or implements its regulations under the HEA, or with other regulations, we may be found to be in noncompliance with those provisions and the ED could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our operations and/or condition or terminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. In addition, the U.S. Congress can change the laws affecting Title IV Programs in the annual federal appropriations bills and other laws it enacts between the HEA reauthorizations. We cannot predict all of the changes that the U.S. Congress will ultimately make. Since a significant percentage of our revenue is indirectly derived from Title IV Programs, any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV Program funding or the ability of our campuses or students to participate in Title IV Programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one or more of our ITT Technical Institute or DWC campuses lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, or if the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV Program funding, we would try to arrange or provide alternative sources of financial aid for the students at the affected campuses. It is unlikely that private organizations would be willing to provide loans to students attending those campuses or that the interest rate and other terms of those loans would be as favorable as for Title IV Program loans. In addition, the private organizations could provide a discounted disbursement amount to us on the student loans and/or require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance on unfavorable terms, and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our students, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks. Legislative action may also increase our administrative costs and burden and require us to modify our practices in order for our campuses to comply fully with the legislative requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if its federal student loan cohort default rates are too high. Under the HEA, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs, if the rates at which the institution’s students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages. The ED calculates these rates for each institution on an annual basis, based on the number of students who have defaulted, not the dollar amount of such defaults. Each institution that participated in the FFEL program and/or FDL program receives a FFEL/FDL cohort default rate for each federal fiscal year (“FFY”) based on defaulted FFEL and FDL program loans. A FFY is October 1 through September 30. The ED calculates an institution’s annual cohort default rate as the rate at which borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one FFY default on those loans by the end of the second succeeding FFY (“Three-Year CDR”). The ED began calculating a Three-Year CDR for each institution for FFY 2009. If an institution’s Three-Year CDR is: • 30% or greater for three consecutive FFYs, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL program and the Pell program for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs; or • greater than 40% for one FFY, the institution loses eligibility to participate in the FDL programs for the remainder of the FFY in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent FFYs. -21- Table of Contents None of our institutions had a Three-Year CDR of 30% or greater for the FFYs 2010 or 2011, which are the most recent FFYs for which official Three-Year CDRs have been issued by the ED. The following table sets forth the average of our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs for the FFYs indicated: FFY Three-YearCDR Average 2011 22.4 % 2010 28.5 % 2009 32.9 %(a) (a) Reduced by the ED from 34.2% as a result of an uncorrected data adjustment. We believe that the higher Three-Year CDR average for FFYs 2010 and 2009 compared to the Three-Year CDR average for FFY 2011 was primarily due to the servicing on the FFEL program loans that were purchased by the ED from the lenders (the “Purchased Loans”) during 2009 and 2010. The Purchased Loans were initially serviced by the FFEL program lenders that made those loans, until the Purchased Loans were sold to the ED. Upon receipt of the Purchased Loans, the ED transferred the servicing of those loans to the servicer of the FDL program loans. Shortly thereafter, the ED replaced the servicer of the FDL program loans with four different servicers, and servicing of the Purchased Loans was distributed among the new servicers of the FDL program loans. We believe that the changes in the servicers of the Purchased Loans had a negative impact on the servicing of those loans, which could have resulted in a higher Three-Year CDR average with respect to those loans. We appealed the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 on the basis that those Purchased Loans were improperly serviced. We have not yet received the ED’s final determination of the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ Three-Year CDRs for FFY 2009 in response to our loan servicing appeal. We anticipate that the result of this appeal will not significantly change the average Three-Year CDR for FFY 2009 shown above. We did not appeal the ITT Technical Institute institutions’ official Three-Year CDRs for FFYs 2010 or 2011. The ED may place an institution on provisional certification status, if the institution’s official Three-Year CDR is 30% or greater for at least two of the three most recent FFYs. The ED may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified, if it applies for approval to open a new location or offer a new program of study that requires approval, or makes some other significant change affecting its eligibility. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit an institution’s participation in Title IV Programs. An institution can appeal its loss of eligibility due to high Three-Year CDRs. During the pendency of any such appeal, the institution remains eligible to participate in the FDL and Pell programs. If an institution continues its participation in the FDL programs during the pendency of any such appeal and the appeal is unsuccessful, the institution must pay the ED the amount of interest, special allowance, reinsurance and any related payments paid by the ED (or which the ED is obligated to pay) with respect to the FDL program loans made to the institution’s students or their parents that would not have been made if the institution had not continued its participation (the “Direct Costs”). If a substantial number of our campuses were subject to losing their eligibility to participate in the FDL and Pell programs because of our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs, the potential amount of the Direct Costs for which we would be liable if our appeals were unsuccessful would prevent us from continuing some or all of the affected campuses’ participation in the FDL program during the pendency of those appeals, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current and future economic conditions in the United States could also adversely affect our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs. Increases in interest rates, declines in individuals’ incomes and job losses for our students and graduates or their parents have contributed to, and could continue to contribute to, higher default rates on student loans. The servicing and collection efforts of student loan servicers help to lower our institutions’ Three-Year CDRs. We supplement their efforts by attempting to contact students to advise them of their responsibilities and any deferment, forbearance or alternative repayment plans for which they may qualify. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in FDL and Pell programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the ED’s proposed new gainful employment regulations are promulgated by the ED in a manner that withstands challenge, and if any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under those regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to use funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs. On June 13, 2011, the ED issued final regulations that were to become effective on July 1, 2012, specifying requirements related to a program of study that leads to gainful employment in a recognized occupation (the “2011 GE Rule”). On June 30, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated all of the 2011 GE Rule, except for those portions pertaining to certain institutional disclosures and reporting requirements. On March 25, 2014, the ED published proposed new gainful employment regulations (“New GE Rule”). If the ED publishes a final version of the New GE Rule on or before November 1, 2014, it would take effect on July 1, 2015. -22- Table of Contents The proposed New GE Rule includes some metrics that are similar to those originally set forth in the 2011 GE Rule, as well as additional provisions and other metrics, some of which are more restrictive than the terms of the 2011 GE Rule, including: • Two debt-to-earnings rates (the “D/E Rates”), consisting of a debt-to-discretionary earnings (“dDTE”) rate and a debt-to-earnings (“aDTE”) rate. • The dDTE rate is the percentage that (i) the annual loan payment required on the median student loan debt incurred by students receiving funds from the Title IV Programs who completed the program represents of (ii) the higher of the mean or median of those students’ discretionary earnings approximately two to three years after they graduate. • The aDTE rate is the percentage that (i) the annual loan payment required on the median student loan debt incurred by students receiving funds from the Title IV Programs who completed the program represents of (ii) the higher of the mean or median of those students’ actual annual earnings approximately two to three years after they graduate. • A program must achieve an aDTE rate at or below 8%, or a dDTE rate at or below 20%, to be considered “passing.” A program with an aDTE rate greater than 8%, but less than or equal to 12%, or a dDTE rate greater than 20%, but less than or equal to 30%, is considered “in the zone.” A program with an aDTE rate greater than 12%, or a dDTE rate greater than 30%, is considered “failing.” • A program will cease to be eligible for students to use Title IV Program funds, if its aDTE rate and dDTE rate are failing in two out of any three consecutive award years or not passing in one out of any four consecutive award years. An award year under the Title IV Programs begins on July 1st and ends on June 30th of the immediately succeeding calendar year. • A program level Three-Year CDR (“pCDR”) that would be calculated in the same manner as an institution’s Three-Year CDR, but based solely on the performance of former students in the particular program. • A program will cease to be eligible for students to use Title IV Program funds, if its pCDR is higher than 30% for three consecutive FFYs. If a program could become ineligible for students to use Title IV Program funds based on its D/E Rates for the next award year or pCDR for the next FFY, the institution must: • provide a written warning to current and prospective students in that program which, among other things, states that students may not be able to use Title IV Program funds to attend the program; and • not enroll, register or enter into a financial commitment with a prospective student in the program, until three business days after (a) the written warning is provided to the prospective student, or (b) a second written warning is provided to the prospective student, if more than 30 days have passed since the written warning was first provided to the prospective student. The proposed New GE Rule also requires institutions to make additional public disclosures and report additional information to the ED with respect to each program that leads to gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The additional disclosure and reporting requirements would be administratively burdensome, would increase our compliance costs, and could cause fewer students to enroll in our programs of study. If a program becomes ineligible for students to use Title IV Program funds, the institution cannot seek to reestablish the eligibility of that program, or establish the eligibility of a program with a classification of instructional program (“CIP”) code that has the same first four digits as the CIP code of an ineligible program, until three years following the date on which the program became ineligible. We cannot be sure of the outcome of this rulemaking, nor can we predict with any certainty which or how many of our programs of study would be ineligible or subject to student warnings under a New GE Rule. We are evaluating the potential impact of the proposed New GE Rule, which may be significantly different in its final version. We cannot predict with certainty the form or impact of a New GE Rule on our operations. Compliance with a New GE Rule could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In response to the vacated 2011 GE Rule, we made significant changes to the programs of study that we offer. The vacated 2011 GE Rule also put downward pressure on tuition prices, to help prevent students from incurring debt that exceeded the levels required for a program to remain eligible under Title IV Programs. This, in turn, increased the percentage of our revenue that is derived from Title IV Programs and, therefore, could adversely impact our compliance with other ED regulations. We have also limited enrollment in certain programs of study and substantially increased our efforts to promote student loan repayment. A New GE Rule would likely result in the continuation of any or all of these factors. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment and/or increase our cost of doing business, perhaps materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. -23- Table of Contents We may be subject to sanctions, including, without limitation, an increase the amount of the ED Letter of Credit, and other limitations in order to continue our campuses’ participation in Title IV Programs, state authorization and accreditation, if we or our campuses do not meet the financial standards of the ED, SAs or ACs. The ED, SAs and ACs prescribe specific financial standards that an institution must satisfy to participate in Title IV Programs, operate in a state and be accredited. The ED evaluates institutions for compliance with its standards each year, based on the institution’s annual audited financial statements, as well as following any change of control of the institution and when the institution is reviewed for recertification by the ED. In evaluating an institution’s compliance with the financial responsibility standards, the ED may examine the financial statements of the individual institution, the institution’s parent company or any party related to the institution. Historically, the ED has evaluated the financial condition of our institutions on a consolidated basis, based on our financial statements at the parent company level. The most significant financial responsibility measurement is the institution’s composite score, which is calculated by the ED based on three ratios: • the equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability; • the primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources; and • the net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit. The ED assigns a strength factor to the results of each of these ratios on a scale from negative 1.0 to positive 3.0, with negative 1.0 reflecting financial weakness and positive 3.0 reflecting financial strength. The ED then assigns a weighting percentage to each ratio and adds the weighted scores for the three ratios together to produce a composite score for the institution (the “Composite Score”). The Composite Score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible by the ED without the need for further oversight. Our institutions’ Composite Score, based on our fiscal year consolidated financial statements at the parent company level, was 1.8 in 2012. In calculating our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score, there are two exclusions that might be available under the ED’s regulations, which would cause our 2013 Composite Score to be higher than if the exclusions were not permitted. The potential exclusions are: • the unusual, one-time charge related to the Consolidation; and • the effect of a change in accounting estimate related to the 2009 RSA. See Note 10 – Variable Interest Entities and Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a more detailed discussion of these factors. The ED may not agree with either or both of these exclusions. If the ED determines that: • both the unusual, one-time charge and the effect of a change in accounting estimate cannot be excluded from the calculation of our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score, our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score would be 0.9, which could require us to post a letter of credit, or increase the amount of any existing letter of credit, payable to the ED, as discussed below; • the unusual, one-time charge can be excluded, but the effect of a change in accounting estimate cannot be excluded, from the calculation of the our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score, our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score would be 1.6; • the effect of a change in accounting estimate can be excluded, but the unusual, one-time charge cannot be excluded, from the calculation of the our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score, our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score would be 1.8; or • both the unusual, one-time charge and the effect of a change in accounting estimate can be excluded from the calculation of our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score, our institutions’ 2013 Composite Score would be 1.9. If the ED determines that an institution does not satisfy the ED’s financial responsibility standards (including, without limitation, having a Composite Score that is less than 1.5), the institution may establish its financial responsibility on one of several alternative bases, including: • a letter of credit alternative, pursuant to which the institution must submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in an amount equal to at least 50% of the Title IV Program funds received by the institution during its most recently completed fiscal year; • a provisional certification alternative for no more than three consecutive years, pursuant to which the institution: • must submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in an amount equal to at least 10% of the Title IV Program funds received by the institution during its most recently completed fiscal year; • must demonstrate to the ED that, for its two most recent fiscal years, the institution was current on its debt payments and has met all of its financial obligations to the ED; • would be placed on HCM or the reimbursement system of payment by the ED, instead of the ED’s standard advance payment method; • would be subject to certain additional reporting requirements; and • could be required to submit its audited financial statements and Compliance Audit to the ED earlier than six months following the end of its fiscal year; or • a zone alternative, if the institution is not financially responsible solely because its Composite Score is in the range of 1.0 to 1.4 for no more than three consecutive years, pursuant to which the institution: • would be placed on HCM or the reimbursement system of payment by the ED, instead of the ED’s standard advance payment method; • would be subject to certain additional reporting requirements; and • could be required to submit its audited financial statements and Compliance Audit to the ED earlier than six months following the end of its fiscal year. -24- Table of Contents The letter of credit that the ED has already required us to post might be accepted to satisfy any additional letter of credit requirement, but there can be no assurance that the ED would not require us to increase the amount of any then-existing letter of credit based on our institutions’ 2013 Composite Scores. Any of the alternatives to establishing financial responsibility described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any significant delay in our institutions’ receipt of Title IV Program funds could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause us to be in default of the Amended Credit Agreement. See “—If we default under our Amended Credit Agreement, any borrowings must be repaid, we may be prevented from further borrowings and from obtaining or maintaining a letter of credit and/or the Amended Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to comply with our obligations.” Further, in the event that the ED requires our institutions to submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in an amount equal to at least 10% or 50% of the Title IV Program funds received by our institutions during its most recently completed fiscal year, we cannot assure you that our institutions would be able to submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in the amount required by the ED, or that we would be able to provide the cash collateral necessary to maintain any letter of credit. The SA’s financial standards include a variety of financial metrics and ratios, including, without limitation, positive net working capital, positive net worth, operating profit, one-to-one ratio of assets to liabilities and/or one-to-one ratio of current assets to current liabilities. Our institutions violated the financial standards of the SAs in Florida, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and West Virginia, due to: • the Consolidation; • our institutions’ failure to submit their 2013 audited consolidated financial statements to the SAs by the applicable due dates; and/or • other factors. As a result of these violations our: • Florida SA: • changed the authorization to operate for each of our 13 campuses in Florida from an annual license to a provisional license, through June 31, 2015; • will conduct an on-site visit of each of our Florida campuses to determine the campus’ compliance with our Florida SA’s regulations; • will require each of our Florida campuses to correct any deficiencies noted during our Florida SA’s on-site visit of the campus; • required us to submit to our Florida SA any correspondence that we or any of our institutions have with the ED or the AC of our Florida campuses, within 15 days of the submission or receipt of that correspondence; • required each of our Florida campuses to submit a train-out plan to our Florida SA on or before September 4, 2014; and • required us to report to our Florida SA, at its September 2014 meeting, on the stability of our Florida campuses and any changes that may further affect our stability or operations; • Pennsylvania SA could: • place each of our seven campuses in Pennsylvania on quarterly financial reporting; • require each of our Pennsylvania campuses to submit to our Pennsylvania SA a teach-out plan with respect to all of the campus’ programs; • require each of our Pennsylvania campuses to submit to our Pennsylvania SA a business plan with respect to the campus’ operations; • raise the required amount of the surety bond that each of our Pennsylvania campuses are required to post for the benefit of our Pennsylvania SA; and/or • suspend or revoke each of our Pennsylvania campuses’ authorization to operate as an educational institution in Pennsylvania; • Tennessee SA could: • assess monetary fines against each of our five campuses in Tennessee; • require each of our Tennessee campuses to submit to our Tennessee SA an audit of the campus’ financial stability that is conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States; • revoke or change each of our Tennessee campuses’ authorization to operate as an educational institution in Tennessee; and/or • suspend or terminate all or any portion of our Tennessee campuses’ operations in Tennessee, including, without limitation, new student enrollment, advertising and/or teaching specific programs; and • West Virginia SA could: • raise the amount of the surety bond that our one campus in West Virginia needs is required to post for the benefit of our West Virginia SA; • call the surety bond that our West Virginia campus posted for the benefit of our West Virginia SA; • suspend, withdraw or revoke our West Virginia campus’ authorization to operate or solicit students in West Virginia; • change our West Virginia campus’ authorization to operate in West Virginia to a probationary authorization; • require our West Virginia campus to refund its students’ tuition and fees; and/or • take any other action against our West Virginia campus that our West Virginia SA deems appropriate. -25- Table of Contents If some or all of the sanctions described above were imposed on many of the affected campuses, those sanctions would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if it does not correctly calculate and return within the required time frame Title IV Program funds for, or refund monies paid by or on behalf of, students who withdraw before completing their program of study. The HEA and its implementing regulations impose limits on the amount of Title IV Program funds withdrawing students can use to pay their education costs (the “Return Policy”). The Return Policy permits a student to use only a pro rata portion of the Title IV Program funds that the student would otherwise be eligible to use, if the student withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment. For the vast majority of our campuses, a period of enrollment is generally an academic quarter. The institution must calculate and return to the ED any Title IV Program funds that the institution receives on behalf of a withdrawing student in excess of the amount the student can use for such period of enrollment. The institution must return those unearned funds in a timely manner which is generally within 45 days of the date the institution determined that the student had withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution is found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. As of December 31, 2013, no audit or review had found that any of our institutions violated the ED’s standard on the timely return of unearned Title IV Program funds. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that our institutions would be able to submit a letter of credit payable to the ED in the amount required by the ED, or that we would be able to provide the cash collateral required to maintain any letter of credit. The standards of most of the SAs and the ACs limit a student’s obligation to an institution for tuition and fees, if a student withdraws from the institution (the “Refund Policies”). The specific standards vary among the SAs. Depending on when, during an academic term, a student withdraws and the applicable Refund Policies, in many instances the student remains obligated to the campus for some or all of the student’s education costs that were paid by the Title IV Program funds returned under the Return Policy. In these instances, many withdrawing students are unable to pay all of their education costs, unless the students have access to other sources of financial aid. Our experience has been that many of our affected students do not have access to other sources of financial aid and that we have been unable to collect a significant portion of many withdrawing students’ education costs that would have been paid by Title IV Program funds that were returned, which, in the aggregate, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutions may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if the percentage of its revenue derived from those programs is too high. Under a provision of the HEA commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, a proprietary institution may be sanctioned if, on a cash accounting basis, the institution derives more than 90% of its applicable revenue in a fiscal year from Title IV Programs. If an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for any single fiscal year, the ED would place that institution on provisional certification status for the institution’s following two fiscal years, unless the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs ends sooner. In addition, if an institution exceeds the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years, it would be ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs as of the first day of the following fiscal year and would be unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the end of the second subsequent fiscal year. Furthermore, if one of our institutions exceeded the 90% threshold for two consecutive fiscal years and became ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs but continued to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the institution to repay, with limited exceptions, all Title IV Program funds disbursed by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. For our 2013 fiscal year, none of our institutions derived more than approximately 83% of its applicable revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV Programs under the 90/10 Rule calculation. Any changes in federal law that increase Title IV Program grant or loan limits, or that count funds other than Title IV Program funds toward the 90% limit, may result in an increase in the percentage of revenue that we indirectly derive from Title IV Programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the 90/10 Rule. We regularly monitor compliance with the 90/10 Rule to minimize the risk that any of our institutions would derive more than the maximum allowable percentage of its applicable revenue from Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If an institution appeared likely to approach the maximum percentage threshold, we would consider making changes in student financing to comply with the 90/10 Rule, but we cannot assure you that we would be able to do this in a timely manner or at all. Further, one of the components of the 90/10 Rule calculation requires us to deduct, from the amount of applicable revenue that we can apply toward the 10% portion of the rule, the principal portion of the payments that we make under the 2009 RSA, in the fiscal year in which those payments are made. This component of the 90/10 Rule calculation increases the uncertainty of whether any of our -26- Table of Contents institutions will derive more than 90% of its applicable revenue from Title IV Programs in future fiscal years. If any of our institutions lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the campuses in that institution, we would probably have to close those campuses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure by one or more of our institutions to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability requirements could result in financial penalties, limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs, or loss of the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy criteria of administrative capability prescribed by the ED. These criteria include requirements that the institution: • demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of its programs and the entry-level job requirements of the relevant fields of employment; • comply with all of the applicable Title IV Program regulations prescribed by the ED; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs; • define and measure the satisfactory academic progress of its students within parameters specified by the ED; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students who receive Title IV Program funds; and • timely submit all required reports and financial statements to the ED. If the ED determines that an institution is not capable of adequately administering its participation in any of the Title IV Programs, the ED could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on the institution; • require the institution to repay funds received under Title IV Programs; • transfer the institution from the advance method of payment of Title IV Program funds to HCM or the reimbursement system of payment; or • limit or terminate the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. In addition, for 2014 and subsequent years, an institution is deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its Three-Year CDR equals or exceeds 30% for at least two of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published. If an institution’s administrative capability is impaired solely because its Three-Year CDRs equal or exceed the applicable percentage, the institution can continue to participate in Title IV Programs, but the ED may place the institution on provisional certification. We are subject to sanctions, if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities. The ED’s regulations prohibit an institution participating in Title IV Programs from providing any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds (the “Incentive Compensation Prohibition”). We believe that the Incentive Compensation Prohibition: • does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, and the ED will not entertain a request by an institution for the ED to review and assess its individual compensation plan; • may subject us to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 et seq. (“False Claims Act”); • adversely affects our ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities, which makes it more difficult to attract and retain highly-qualified employees; and • impairs our ability to sustain and grow our business. We cannot be sure that the compensation that we have paid our employees will not be determined to violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. If the ED determines that our compensation practices violate the Incentive Compensation Prohibition, the ED could subject us to substantial monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. We could also be subjected to qui tam lawsuits for alleged violations of the False Claims Act related to the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. Those sanctions and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. We cannot operate new campuses, add learning sites or offer new programs, if they are not timely authorized by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs, if we do not obtain prior authorization. Our expansion plans assume that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary authorization from the ED, ACs and SAs to establish new campuses, add learning sites to our existing campuses and expand or revise program offerings in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain the required authorizations from the ED, ACs or SAs for any new campuses or learning sites, or any new or revised program offerings, or to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, our ability to operate the new campuses, add the learning sites or offer new or revised programs as planned would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. -27- Table of Contents The process of obtaining any required SA and ACs authorizations can also delay our operating new campuses, adding learning sites or offering new programs. The status of our institutions and the state laws and regulations in effect in the states where we are located or anticipate establishing a new location or the ACs standards may limit our ability to establish new campuses and learning sites and expand the programs offered at a campus, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. In addition, an institution that is eligible to participate in Title IV Programs may add a new location or education program without the ED’s approval only if certain requirements are met. Otherwise, the institution must obtain the ED’s approval before it may disburse Title IV Program funds to students in the new location or education program. If we were to erroneously determine that a new location or education program is eligible for Title IV Program funding, we would likely be liable for repayment of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that location or program. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” Due to our institutions’ failure to submit their 2013 audited consolidated financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED by June 30, 2014, all of our institutions are provisionally certified to participate in the Title IV Programs. See “—Our institutions’ failure to submit their audited consolidated financial statements and Compliance Audits to the ED by the due date resulted in sanctions imposed by the ED on our institutions that include, among other things, our institutions having to post a letter of credit, being placed on heightened cash monitoring and being provisionally certified.” Any institution provisionally certified by the ED must apply for and receive approval by the ED for any substantial change before the institution can award, disburse or distribute Title IV Program funds based on the substantial change. Substantial changes generally include, but are not limited to: • the establishment of an additional location; • an increase in the level of academic offering beyond those listed in the institution’s Eligibility and Certification Approval Report with the ED; • an addition of any eligible non-degree education program or short-term training program; or • an addition of a degree program by a proprietary institution. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry,” for a further discussion of the ED’s provisional certification of an institution to participate in Title IV Programs. See also “—If the ED’s proposed new gainful employment regulations are promulgated by the ED in a manner that withstands challenge, and if any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under those regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to use funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs,” regarding additional program approval requirements that are contained in the draft regulations under the New GE Rule. Failure by any of our campuses or program offerings to satisfy the ACICS compliance standards with respect to Student Retention Rates, Graduate Placement Rates or Licensure Examination Pass Rates could cause us to close those campuses and reduce the offerings of those programs. Under the ACICS standards, if the Student Retention Rate or Graduate Placement Rate: • of a campus falls below the ACICS benchmark standards, the campus is required to develop and implement a campus improvement plan and periodically report its results to the ACICS; • of a campus falls below the ACICS compliance standards, the campus is required to come into compliance within a specified time period, or the ACICS may withdraw the campus’ inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation; • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS benchmark standards, the campus is required to develop and implement a program improvement plan for that program offering; or • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS compliance standards, the program offering is required to come into compliance within a specified time period, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of that program offering. The ACICS has also implemented standards related to Licensure Examination Pass Rates that apply to programs of study that have graduates who, if they seek employment, are required to have a certificate, licensure or registration based on an industry-sponsored examination in the applicable field. Under the ACICS standards, if the Licensure Examination Pass Rate: • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS benchmark standards, the campus is required to develop and implement a program improvement plan for that program offering; or • of a program offering at a campus falls below the ACICS compliance standards, the program offering is required to come into compliance within a specified time period, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of that program offering. A campus that falls below the ACICS: • benchmark standards is not required to obtain permission from the ACICS prior to applying to add a new program offering; or • compliance standards is required to obtain permission from the ACICS prior to applying to add a new program offering. One ITT Technical Institute location needs to raise its Student Retention Rate to at least 60% by November 1, 2015, or the ACICS may withdraw that location’s inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation. Five ITT Technical Institute locations -28- Table of Contents need to raise their Graduate Placement Rates to at least 60% by November 1, 2015, or the ACICS may withdraw those locations’ inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation. A total of 87 program offerings at 61 ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Student Retention Rates to at least 60% by November 1, 2015, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of those program offerings (although we have discontinued and are no longer enrolling new students in 18 of those program offerings). A total of 158 program offerings at 86 ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Graduate Placement Rates to at least 60% by November 1, 2015, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of those program offerings (although we have discontinued and are no longer enrolling new students in 141 of those program offerings). A total of four program offerings at four ITT Technical Institute locations need to raise their Licensure Examination Pass Rates to at least 60% by November 1, 2015, or the ACICS may withdraw its authorization of those program offerings. If the ACICS determines that its Mitigating Circumstances apply to an institution’s campus or program, the ACICS waives the application of the compliance standard to the institution’s campus or program. The ACICS has granted Mitigating Circumstances waivers to a total of: • one ITT Technical Institute location with respect to the Student Retention Rate compliance standard; • nine ITT Technical Institute locations with respect to the Graduate Placement Rate compliance standard; • six program offerings at six ITT Technical Institute locations with respect to the Student Retention Rate compliance standard; and • four program offerings at three ITT Technical Institute locations with respect to the Graduate Placement Rate compliance standard. The number of ITT Technical Institute locations and program offerings that received Mitigating Circumstances waivers from the ACICS are not included in the number of ITT Technical Institute locations and program offerings specified in the immediately preceding paragraph that are subject to having the locations’ inclusion in the institution’s grant of accreditation withdrawn or the program offerings’ authorizations withdrawn for failure to comply with the Student Retention Rate and Graduate Placement Rate compliance standards. If any of our ITT Technical Institute locations and/or program offerings fall below the Student Retention Rate, Graduate Placement Rate or Licensure Examination Pass Rate compliance standards and we were unable to timely bring those locations and/or program offerings into compliance, we may have to close those locations and reduce the offerings of those programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure of our programs of study offered in any state to qualify as credit hour programs, as opposed to clock hour programs, under the ED’s regulations would likely result in our students, who attend those programs, receiving less funds from Title IV Programs, may result in fewer students attending those programs and could result in financial penalties. The ED’s regulations related to determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours, as opposed to credit hours, are unclear. Students attending credit hour programs of study that are required to be measured in clock hours will likely receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education with respect to those programs of study. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. If we were to erroneously determine that a program of study is not required to measure student progress in clock hours, we would likely be liable for repayment of a portion of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that program of study based on the difference between the amount of funds those students received and the amount they were eligible to receive. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties have brought, and may bring additional, investigations, claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, receive other sanctions and expend significant resources to defend those claims or actions. We are subject to investigations and claims of non-compliance with regulatory standards and other actions brought by regulatory agencies, students, shareholders and other parties. Some of the more significant pending investigations, claims and actions are described below. If the results of any investigations, claims and/or actions are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, operational limitations, loss of eligibility to participate in federal or state financial aid programs, debarments, additional oversight and reporting, or other civil and criminal sanctions. Those sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal and other expenses in connection with investigations, claims and actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Investigations, claims and actions have and will continue to cause a substantial diversion of our management’s attention and resources from our ongoing business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse publicity regarding any of those investigations, claims and/or actions could also negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Further, the fact that investigations, claims and actions are pending against us has resulted in, and could in the future result in, increased scrutiny, the withholding of authorizations and/or the imposition of other sanctions by SAs, the ACs and other regulatory agencies governing us. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” -29- Table of Contents On May 18, 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (the “Original CID”) from the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). In September 2013, the CFPB withdrew the Original CID and we received a new Civil Investigative Demand (the “New CID”) from the CFPB. Both the Original CID and the New CID provided that the purpose of the CFPB’s investigation was, in part, “to determine whether for-profit post-secondary companies, student loan origination and servicing providers, or other unnamed persons have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or practices relating to the advertising, marketing, or origination of private student loans.” Both the Original CID and the New CID contained broad requests for oral testimony, production of documents and written reports related to private education loans made to our students, internal financing provided to our students and certain other aspects of our business. We provided documentation and other information to the CFPB, while preserving our rights to object to its inquiry. On February 26, 2014, the CFPB filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana under the following caption: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau v. ITT Educational Services, Inc. (the “CFPB Litigation”). The complaint alleges, among other things, that we violated: • Section 1036(a)(1) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (the “CFPA”), 12 U.S.C. § 5536(a)(1), which prohibits unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices, from July 21, 2011 through December 2011, by: • subjecting consumers to undue influence or coercing them into taking out private education loans through a variety of unfair acts and practices designed to interfere with the consumers’ ability to make informed, uncoerced choices; • taking unreasonable advantage of consumers’ inability to protect their interest in selecting or using private education loans; and • taking unreasonable advantage of consumers’ reasonable reliance on us to act in the consumers’ interests; and • the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1601 et seq., and Regulation Z thereunder, 12 C.F.R. Part 1026, which require certain disclosures to be made in writing to consumers in connection with the extension of consumer credit, since March 2009, by failing to disclose a discount that constituted a finance charge. On April 28, 2014, we filed a motion to dismiss the CFPB Litigation for, among other reasons, lack of jurisdiction and failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. We have defended, and intend to continue to defend, ourselves vigorously against the allegations made in the complaint. On October 30, 2012, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General (“MAG”). The MAG’s CID provides that the MAG is investigating allegations that we may have violated Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 93A, Section 2(a) by “engaging in unfair or deceptive practices in connection with marketing and advertising job placement and student outcomes, the recruitment of students, and the financing of education.” The MAG’s CID contains broad requests for production of documents related to our students in Massachusetts, including the financial aid available to those students, our recruitment of those students, the career services that we offer to those students, our marketing and advertising, the retention and graduation rates of those students and many other aspects of our business. We are cooperating with the MAG in its investigation, and we have provided documentation, communications and other information to the MAG in response to the CID. The ultimate outcome of the MAG investigation, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. In January, February, April and May 2014, we received subpoenas and/or CIDs from the Attorneys General of Arkansas, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Washington under the authority of each state’s consumer protection statutes. The Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has informed us that it will serve as the point of contact for the multistate group to respond to questions relating to the subpoenas and CIDs. The subpoenas and CIDs contain broad requests for information and the production of documents related to our students and practices, including marketing and advertising, recruitment, financial aid, academic advising, career services, admissions, programs, licensure exam pass rates, accreditation, student retention, graduation rates and job placement rates, as well as many other aspects of our business. We believe that several other companies in the proprietary postsecondary education sector have received similar subpoenas and CIDs. We are cooperating with the Attorneys General of the states involved. The ultimate outcome of the state Attorneys General investigation, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. On February 27, 2014, the New Mexico Attorney General filed a complaint against us in the District Court of New Mexico under the following caption: State of New Mexico, ex rel. Gary K King, Attorney General v. ITT Educational Services, Inc., et al. (the “New Mexico Litigation”). On April 4, 2014, we removed the New Mexico Litigation to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. The complaint alleges, among other things, that we engaged in a pattern and practice of exploiting New Mexico consumers by using deceptive, unfair, unconscionable and unlawful business practices in the marketing, sale, provision and financing of education goods and services in violation of New Mexico’s Unfair Practices Act. In particular, the complaint contains allegations that: • we misrepresented matters related to our nursing education program, including, without limitation, its programmatic accreditation status, the transferability of credits earned in the program and the curriculum of the program; -30- Table of Contents • we misrepresented the terms of the financial aid available to students and the cost of our programs; • we engaged in unfair or deceptive trade practices; • we failed to issue refunds; and • our form enrollment agreement contained unenforceable and unconscionable provisions. The complaint seeks: • an order declaring portions of our enrollment agreement illusory, unconscionable and unenforceable; • preliminary and permanent injunctive relief; • disgorgement of unjust enrichment amounts; • unspecified civil penalty amounts; • restitution; and • reasonable costs, including investigative costs. We have defended, and intend to continue to defend, ourselves vigorously against the allegations made in the complaint. On February 8, 2013, we received the first of many subpoenas from the SEC. In a letter accompanying each of the subpoenas, the SEC states that it is conducting an investigation of us. The SEC’s subpoenas requested the production of documents and communications that, among other things, relate to our actions and accounting associated with: • agreements that we entered into with the 2009 Entity to create the 2009 Loan Program, including, without limitation, the 2009 RSA; • agreements that we entered into with unrelated parties on January 20, 2010 to create the PEAKS Program, which made private education loans available to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources did not cover, pursuant to which: • an unrelated lender originated private education loans to our eligible students and, subsequently, sold those loans to the PEAKS Trust; • the PEAKS Trust issued the PEAKS Senior Debt in the aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million to investors; and • under the PEAKS Guarantee, we guarantee payment of the principal, interest and, prior to February 2013, certain call premiums owed on the PEAKS Senior Debt, the administrative fees and expenses of the PEAKS Trust and a minimum required ratio of assets of the PEAKS Trust to outstanding PEAKS Senior Debt (the “Asset/Liability Ratio”); • certain accounting-related documents associated with the 2009 Loan Program, the PEAKS Program and internal student financing; and • our board of directors-related materials associated with the 2009 Loan Program, the PEAKS Program and internal student financing. We have provided the information requested, including testimony of senior employees. On August 7, 2014, we received a “Wells Notice” from the staff of the Division of Enforcement (the “Staff”) of the SEC notifying us that the Staff had made a preliminary determination to recommend that the SEC file an enforcement action against us. According to the Staff, the enforcement action would allege violations of Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 13a-15 under the Exchange Act. The proposed action relates primarily to certain disclosures and accounting surrounding the two loan programs noted above. The SEC’s notice said that the Staff’s recommendation may: • involve a civil injunctive action, public administrative proceeding and/or cease-and-desist proceeding against us; and • seek remedies that include an injunction, a cease-and-desist order and monetary relief, including civil monetary penalties. -31- Table of Contents A Wells Notice is neither a formal allegation nor a finding of wrongdoing. Instead, it is a preliminary determination by the Staff to recommend that the SEC file a civil enforcement action or administrative proceeding against the recipient. Under the SEC’s procedures, a recipient of a Wells Notice has an opportunity to respond in the form of a Wells submission that seeks to persuade the SEC that such an action should not be brought. Accordingly, we made a submission to the Staff in response to the Wells Notice setting forth why the factual record does not support the enforcement action recommended by the Staff and that any perceived shortcomings were made in good faith. Although we intend to defend ourselves vigorously should the SEC authorize any legal action that does not comport with our view of the facts, we cannot predict the outcome of any legal action or whether the matters will result in any settlement. The ultimate outcome of the SEC investigation, any legal action by the SEC or any settlement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. Like us, the operations of a number of companies in the postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, SEC, ED, CFPB, Government Accountability Office, Department of Veterans Affairs, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Defense, state education and professional licensing authorities, states’ attorney general offices or other state agencies. These investigations and actions have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage that may negatively affect public perceptions of proprietary education institutions, including the ITT Technical Institutes and Daniel Webster College. Adverse media coverage regarding other companies in the proprietary education sector or regarding us directly could damage our reputation, could result in lower enrollments, revenue and profit, and could have a negative impact on our stock price. These allegations, reviews, investigations and enforcement actions and the accompanying adverse publicity could also result in increased scrutiny of, and have a negative impact on, us and our industry. Changes in the amount or availability of veterans’ educational benefits or Department of Defense tuition assistance programs could materially and adversely affect our business. Certain members of the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration have increased their focus on Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans educational benefits that are used for programs of study offered at proprietary education institutions, particularly distance education programs of study. On April 27, 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13607, Establishing Principles of Excellence for Educational Institutions Serving Service Members, Veterans, Spouses, and Other Family Members (the “EO”). The EO requires an institution to agree to comply with the principles of excellence described in the EO in order for the institution to participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program for Veterans under the Post-9/11 GI Bill or the Tuition Assistance Program for active duty service members. Among other things, the principles of excellence include a requirement that institutions implement a refund policy for veterans and service members that is aligned with the Return Policy. In addition, federal legislation has been introduced that would revise the 90/10 Rule to count Department of Defense tuition assistance and veterans’ educational benefits toward the 90% limit. To the extent that any laws, regulations or other requirements are adopted that limit or condition the amount of educational benefits that veterans and active duty service members can use toward their costs of education at proprietary education institutions or in distance education programs, or that limit or condition the participation of proprietary education institutions or distance education programs in veteran or military tuition assistance programs or in Title IV Programs with respect to veteran or military tuition assistance programs, our enrollments, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If the graduates of some of our programs are unable to obtain licensure in their chosen professional fields of study, the enrollment in and the revenue derived from those programs could decrease and claims could be made against us that could be costly to defend. Graduates of certain of our programs of study offered through our Breckinridge School of Nursing and Health Sciences seek professional licensure in their chosen field following graduation. Their success in obtaining licensure depends on several factors, including: • the merits of the individual student; and • whether the campus and the program were authorized by the appropriate SAs and/or approved by an accrediting commission and/or professional association. Certain SAs refuse to license students who graduate from programs that do not meet specific types of programmatic accreditation, residency or other state requirements. In the event that one or more SAs refuses to recognize our graduates for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to our campuses or their programs, student enrollment in those programs would be negatively impacted which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to claims that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Laws and regulations relating to marketing practices could limit our marketing activities or cause us to discontinue the marketing activities that we currently use or plan to use, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in statutory damages or lawsuits against us. We rely on a variety of direct-to-consumer marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations which govern marketing and advertising practices. For example, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and various other federal and state laws and regulations impose requirements on the manner and extent to which we can market our programs to prospective students. A recent amendment to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act requires, among other things, that we receive prior express written consent from consumers in order to place telemarketing calls to -32- Table of Contents wireless phones using certain technology. Efforts to comply with the new regulations may negatively affect our ability to contact prospective students and, therefore, our revenue and profitability. Newly-adopted or amended laws and regulations relating to telemarketing, and increased enforcement of such laws and regulations by governmental agencies or by private litigants, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our marketing activities could also result in statutory damages and class action lawsuits against us. The Early Career Academy is highly regulated, may require significant expenditures by us and may not be a successful business endeavor. To date, we have become the EMO for only one public charter high school. As such, the Early Career Academy is in the initial stages, and we cannot assure you that it will be a successful endeavor for us in the foreseeable future or at all. The Early Career Academy business is subject to extensive regulation, and we believe that it may require significant expenditures by us. Some of the factors that could have an adverse effect on the business of the Early Career Academy include, among others: • a reduction in government funding for, or a loss of tax-exempt status or funding eligibility by, public charter high schools; • the poor performance or misconduct by the Early Career Academy or operators of other public charter high schools; • legal claims challenging various aspects of public charter high schools; and • non-compliance with applicable regulations. Risks Related to Our Business Our guarantee obligations under the private education loan programs have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into risk sharing and guarantee agreements with entities related to private education loans provided to our students to help pay the students’ cost of education that student financial aid from federal, state and other sources does not cover. We settled all of our guarantee obligations under a risk sharing agreement that we entered into in 2007 (the “2007 RSA”) through a payment of $46.0 million in January 2013. Under the 2009 RSA, we guarantee the repayment of any private education loans that are charged off above a certain percentage of the private education loans made under the 2009 RSA, based on dollar volume. Under the PEAKS Guarantee, we guarantee: • the payment of principal (i.e., approximately $214.5 million as of June 30, 2014) and interest on the outstanding PEAKS Senior Debt; • the payment of administrative fees and expenses to the PEAKS Trust; and • a minimum required Asset/Liability Ratio. Our obligations under the PEAKS Guarantee will remain in effect until the PEAKS Senior Debt and the PEAKS Trust’s fees and expenses are paid in full. Our obligations under the 2009 RSA will remain in effect, until all private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program are paid in full or charged off. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Private Education Loan Program Obligations,” for information regarding the guarantee payments, the payments on behalf of student borrowers that we made under the PEAKS Program to avoid defaults by those borrowers on their PEAKS Trust Student Loans (“Payments on Behalf of Borrowers”) and the payments that we made related to the RSAs in 2013. See also Note 10 – Variable Interest Entities and Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The repayment performance of the private education loans under the RSAs has been significantly worse, and the charge-off rate on those loans has been significantly higher, than we originally projected when we entered into the RSAs and our subsequent projections. Further, under the PEAKS Guarantee, due to the Consolidation and other factors, we were not in compliance with certain financial metrics under the PEAKS Program, which resulted in an increase in the required minimum Asset/Liability Ratio and a requirement that we make higher payments under the PEAKS Guarantee. As a result of the higher charge-off rates of the private education loans made under both the 2009 Loan Program and PEAKS Program and the increased Asset/Liability Ratio, we have made payments related to the RSAs that have been significantly higher than we initially anticipated, and we currently estimate that we will be required to make payments in material amounts under the RSAs in 2014 and future years. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Private Education Loan Program Obligations” and Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for the amount of payments that we currently estimate we will be required to make through the remaining terms of the RSAs. As a consequence of the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, certain quarterly reports that we were required to deliver to the indenture trustee of the PEAKS Trust under the PEAKS Guarantee were inaccurate. We delivered corrected quarterly reports to the indenture trustee on October 9, 2014. If we had delivered accurate quarterly reports, or with respect to periods in 2014 through June 30, 2014, delivered quarterly reports, to the indenture trustee of the PEAKS Trust, we believe the indenture trustee would have made payment demands beginning in April 2013, requiring us to make additional payments under the PEAKS Guarantee totaling approximately $60.3 million in the aggregate, in order to maintain an Asset/Liability Ratio of 1.40/1.00. On October 9, 2014, we made a guarantee payment of $50.0 million, which payment, along with other payments that we have made to the PEAKS Trust in recent months, included amounts that would have become due between April 2013 and September 2014, had we delivered accurate quarterly reports. The delivery of inaccurate quarterly reports constituted a breach of the PEAKS Guarantee and an event of default under the indenture under the PEAKS Program (the “PEAKS Indenture”). In the event of a default under the PEAKS Indenture, the payment of the entire amount of the PEAKS Senior Debt could be accelerated, which would trigger our obligation to pay the full amount of the PEAKS Senior Debt pursuant to our obligations under the PEAKS Guarantee, additional remedies could be sought against us and there could be a cross-default under the Amended Credit Agreement, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We believe that the delivery of the corrected quarterly reports and making the additional guarantee payments satisfied our obligations under the PEAKS Guarantee with respect to these matters and cured the event of default under the PEAKS Indenture. We cannot predict, however, whether the holders of the PEAKS Senior Debt will assert other breaches of the PEAKS Guarantee by us or assert that any breach of the PEAKS Guarantee or event of default under the PEAKS Indenture was not properly cured. -33- Table of Contents We have offset approximately $9.1 million against amounts owed to us by the 2009 Entity under a revolving promissory note (the “Revolving Note”), instead of making additional payments under the 2009 RSA in that amount. We understand the 2009 Entity’s position to be that the offset was improper and, as a result, we are in default under the 2009 RSA. In the event of a default by us under the 2009 RSA related to the offset, we may be required to pay to the 2009 Entity approximately $8.6 million, representing the amount of the offset, net of approximately $0.5 million of recoveries from charged-off loans that are owed, but have not been paid, to us. If the 2009 Entity instead were to withdraw cash collateral in that amount from the restricted bank account maintained to hold collateral to secure our obligations under the 2009 RSA, we would be required to deposit that amount of cash in the account to maintain the required level of collateral under the 2009 RSA. As a consequence of the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2013, June 30, 2013 and September 30, 2013, certain quarterly compliance certificates that we were required to deliver to the 2009 Entity under the 2009 RSA were inaccurate. Those inaccuracies did not affect our compliance with the financial ratio covenants in the 2009 RSA as of March 31, 2013. We were not, however, in compliance with the financial ratio covenants in the 2009 RSA as of June 30, 2013 and subsequent measurement dates. Further, due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014, we did not timely deliver the required compliance certificates under the 2009 RSA with respect to those periods. As a result of our noncompliance with the financial ratio covenants as of June 30, 2013 and subsequent measurement dates, the amount of collateral required to be maintained in the restricted bank account has been increased by approximately $2.6 million. We intend to make in October 2014 a deposit in that amount to the restricted bank account to be held as additional collateral under the 2009 RSA. In addition, at the end of each reporting period, we assess whether we should recognize a contingent liability related to the 2009 RSA and, prior to February 28, 2013, the PEAKS Program. Due to a number of factors, primarily the significant charge-off rate of the private education loans under the 2009 Loan Program, the amount of the contingent liability that we recorded related to the 2009 RSA as of December 31, 2013 increased substantially to approximately $116.9 million. Further, the amount of the contingent liability that we record related to the 2009 RSA in periods after December 31, 2013 could further increase substantially. The amount of the contingent liability that we record related to the 2009 RSA has negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our compliance with covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement, the financial metrics under the RSAs and the requirements of the ED, SAs and ACs. Even if the charge-off rates of the private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program and PEAKS Program remain at levels similar to the charge-off rates that we are currently utilizing in our estimates of future payment amounts under the RSAs and the contingent liability amount related to the 2009 RSA, those payment amounts and the contingent liability amount could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and financial position, and could cause us to violate the requirements of the ED, SAs and ACs and/or our covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement. Under the 2009 RSA, we have an obligation to make the monthly payments due and unpaid on those private education loans that have been charged off above a certain percentage (“Regular Payments”). Instead of making Regular Payments, however, we may elect to: • pay the then outstanding balance (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of those private education loans that have been charged off above a certain percentage and, with respect to which, an amount equal to at least ten monthly payments has been paid; or • pay the then outstanding balance (plus accrued and unpaid interest) of those private education loans that have been charged off above a certain percentage and, with respect to which, an amount equal to at least ten monthly payments has not been paid, plus any interest that would otherwise have been payable until ten monthly payments had been made, discounted at the rate of 10% per annum, (collectively, “Discharge Payments”). Our estimates of the future payment amounts under the 2009 RSA and the timing of those payments, assume, among other factors, that we make Discharge Payments to the fullest extent possible in 2018 and later years. If we do not make the Discharge Payments as assumed in 2018 and later years, due to an inability to make payments in those amounts or for any other reason, we estimate that we will have to pay significantly larger amounts under the 2009 RSA over the remaining term of that agreement. -34- Table of Contents Our estimates of the future charge-off rates of the private education loans made under the 2009 Loan Program and PEAKS Program and of other factors that we utilize in our projections are based on numerous assumptions which may not prove to be correct and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We would be required to pay additional material amounts under the RSAs and we could be required to make payments under the RSAs earlier than currently projected and record a higher contingent liability amount related to the 2009 RSA, in the event that: • the charge-off rates on the private education loans are higher than we are currently estimating; • other factors utilized in our projections are worse than currently estimated; and/or • other factors negatively impact our compliance with the financial metrics to which we are subject under the RSAs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us, including, among others, on our: • results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • liquidity and ability to pay our obligations as they become due; • ability to comply with the requirements of the ED, SAs and ACs to which we are subject, resulting in significant negative consequences; • ability to comply with our covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement, resulting in a default thereunder, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and ability to comply with our other obligations; and • ability to make required payments under the RSAs, resulting in a default thereunder, which, in the case of a default under the PEAKS Guarantee, could result in an acceleration of the entire amount of the PEAKS Senior Debt and our obligations to pay the full amount of the PEAKS Senior Debt pursuant to the terms of the PEAKS Guarantee, additional remedies against us and there could be a cross-default under the Amended Credit Agreement, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we fail to effectively identify, establish and operate new campuses and learning sites, our growth may be slowed. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate operating new campuses and adding learning sites to existing campuses at locations throughout the United States. Establishing new campuses and learning sites poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of existing campuses. To operate a new campus or add a learning site, we would be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the applicable SAs and ACs, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, a new campus or learning site must be certified by the ED, either before or after it starts disbursing Title IV Program funds to its students. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new campuses or learning sites. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established campuses or learning sites could slow our growth, make any newly established campuses or learning sites more costly to operate than we had planned and have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively identify, develop, obtain approval to offer and teach new programs at different levels in a cost-effective and timely manner. Part of our business strategy also includes increasing the number, levels, lengths and disciplines of programs offered at our campuses. Developing and offering new programs pose challenges and require us to make investments in research and development, management and capital expenditures, to incur marketing and advertising expenses and to devote other resources that are in addition to, and in some cases greater than, those associated with our current program offerings. In order to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses, we may be required to obtain the appropriate authorizations from the ED, SAs, ACs and, in certain circumstances, specialized programmatic accrediting commissions, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could affect the programs offered at our campuses. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify new programs to help maintain or accelerate our current geographic expansion, that we will be able to obtain the requisite authorizations to offer new programs at different levels at our campuses or that students will enroll in any new programs that we offer at our campuses. Any failure by us to effectively identify, develop, obtain authorization to offer and teach new programs at our campuses could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Enhance Results at Each Institution” and “—If the ED’s proposed new gainful employment regulations are promulgated by the ED in a manner that withstands challenge, and if any of our programs of study fail to qualify as programs that lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation under those regulations, students attending those programs of study will be unable to use funds from Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technical skills and also appropriate soft skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. The skills that employees need may evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in -35- Table of Contents response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by the employers we serve or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates. The awareness of our programs among working adults and recent high school graduates is important to the success of our campuses. If we were unable to successfully market or advertise our programs, our ability to attract and enroll prospective students in our programs would be adversely affected and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability would be impaired. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing or advertising our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • employer dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • high costs of certain types of advertising media; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors or proprietary education generally; and • our failure to maintain or expand our brands or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices. Increases in institutional scholarships and internal student financing could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, revenue and student population. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we introduced an institutional scholarship program, called the Opportunity Scholarship, which is intended to help reduce the cost of an ITT Technical Institute education and increase student access to our programs of study. By June 30, 2013, the Opportunity Scholarship was being offered to students at all of the ITT Technical Institute campuses. We believe that the Opportunity Scholarship has, and will continue to, reduce our students’ need and use of private education loans, as well as decrease the internal student financing that we provide to our students. As an institutional scholarship, our revenue is reduced by the amount of the Opportunity Scholarship awarded. In addition, no cash payments are received and students will not be obligated to make payments to us of the amounts awarded under the Opportunity Scholarship. Therefore, the amounts receivable from students to us, as well as our revenue, decreased in 2013 and in the six months ended June 30, 2014 and, we believe, may continue to decrease in the remainder of 2014. The increased amount of internal student financing that we provided to our students over the last few years has negatively impacted our liquidity and exposed us to greater credit risk. The internal student financing that we provide to our students consists of non-interest bearing, unsecured credit extended to our students. Internal student financing typically provides for payment to us by our students by the end of the student’s academic year or enrollment, whichever occurs first, compared to payments from private education loan programs, which we typically received at the beginning of a student’s academic year. This change in the timing of payments had a material adverse effect on our cash flows from operations in 2012 and 2013. In addition, we have the risk of collection with respect to our internal student financing, which caused us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts in 2012 and 2013 and resulted in an increase in our bad debt expense as a percentage of revenue in 2012 and 2013. The increase in internal student financing was the primary cause of the increase in our days sales outstanding and the decrease in our deferred revenue in 2012, primarily due to the decrease in the amount of funds received from private education loans made to our students by third-party lenders. We plan to continue to offer the Opportunity Scholarship to eligible students which we believe will reduce the amount of internal student financing that we provide to our students. The increased use of institutional scholarships and awards by our students and any additional internal student financing provided to our students could result in a continuation of the adverse factors that are described above, including a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. If we experience losses in excess of the amounts that we have accrued with respect to the significant amount of internal student financing that we have provided to our students, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We offer internal student financing to help students pay the portion of their cost of education that is not covered by financial aid or other funds. These balances are unsecured and not typically guaranteed. These balances have increased significantly in the last few years as a result of the number of our students who did not qualify for private education loans from third parties due to their prior credit history and the limited funding available under private education loan programs for which those students could qualify. The introduction of the Opportunity Scholarship has reduced, and will continue to reduce, our students’ need for internal student financing. Internal student financing adversely affects our cash flows and exposes us to greater credit risk. Although we have accrued for estimated losses related to unpaid student balances, losses in excess of the amount we have accrued for bad debts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High interest rates and tightening of the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students and could increase our risk exposure. Since much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates, higher interest rates cause a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, -36- Table of Contents which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and, consequently, in our revenue. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program and private education loans. High default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, trigger our guarantee obligations with respect to private education loan programs and/or negatively affect the willingness of private lenders to make private education loan programs available to our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our campuses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of those adverse effects on our students’ ability to finance their cost of education, our receivables could increase and/or our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The ability of the CPD to provide education-related services depends, in large part, on obtaining authorizations from vendors and trade associations to use their content in the CPD’s education-related services. Part of our business strategy includes developing and providing education-related services to students and other constituencies. Through the CPD, we are developing and providing education-related services, including training programs, curricula, assessments and consulting. The majority of the content of the education-related services provided by the CPD is authorized under agreements between the CPD and vendors or trade associations (the “Content Agreements”). We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or renew the existing Content Agreements or enter into new Content Agreements. Any failure by us to effectively identify or develop content for education-related services, or maintain, renew or obtain Content Agreements with respect to our education-related services, could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. The search for, and transition of, a new chief executive officer could adversely affect us, and our inability to attract, hire or retain key personnel could harm our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers. As previously disclosed, Kevin M. Modany, our Chief Executive Officer, will resign from that position on February 4, 2015, subject to an extension by up to three months, or earlier termination, at our option. Our Board of Directors is conducting a search for a replacement Chief Executive Officer. The planned resignation of Mr. Modany may cause disruption in our business, strategic and employee relationships, which may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives, and may cause a loss of key employees or declines in the productivity of existing employees. The search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer may take many months or more, further exacerbating these factors. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to select and employ a new Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner. Identifying and hiring an experienced and qualified Chief Executive Officer is typically difficult, and may be even more difficult under the circumstances affecting us at this time. Further, we may not be able to effectively compete with compensation packages offered by other companies that are recruiting senior executive officers, due to the limitations imposed on us by the Incentive Compensation Prohibition. We may be unable to attract a suitably qualified individual for the Chief Executive Officer position, or we may be required to pay increased base salary compensation in order to do so. Any or all of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our search for a new Chief Executive Officer may also adversely affect our business or impose additional risks, such as the following: • disruption of our business or distraction of our employees and management; • difficulty recruiting, hiring, motivating and retaining other talented and skilled personnel; • increased stock price volatility; and • difficulty in establishing, maintaining or negotiating business or strategic relationships or transactions. We cannot assure you that the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer will be smooth or successful. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or a disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in other key officers and employees. Changes to strategic or operating goals with the appointment of new executives may, themselves, prove to be disruptive. Periods of transition in senior management leadership are often difficult as the new executives gain detailed knowledge of the company’s operations and may result in cultural differences and friction due to changes in strategy and style. During the Chief Executive Officer transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees, creditors and others concerning our future direction and performance. Any disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. During our search for, and transition of, a new Chief Executive Officer, it is important that we retain key personnel. All of our officers and other employees are at-will employees, which means they can terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of key personnel, especially during this period of leadership transition, or do not hire or retain other personnel for key positions, including the Chief Executive Officer position, our business, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school administrators and corporate management. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, especially during this period of leadership transition, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. -37- Table of Contents In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services. Our ability to develop a strong team of employees with these responsibilities may be affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to timely and effectively train and motivate our employees in order for them to become productive; • restrictions imposed by regulatory bodies on the method of compensating employees, such as the Incentive Compensation Prohibition; • our ability to attract enough prospective students to our program offerings; and • our ability to effectively manage a multi-institutional and multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for student recruiting, financial aid, registration, teaching and career services, our operations would be adversely affected. Recent and ongoing adverse matters affecting us and our industry, including, without limitation, investigations, claims and lawsuits, and the negative publicity associated with those matters, may make it significantly more difficult for us to attract, motivate and retain employees at all levels of our organization. In addition, volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain key employees, including a new Chief Executive Officer. Our key executives may be more inclined to leave us, because the exercise prices of their stock options are significantly below the market price of our common stock or the perceived value of their restricted stock units continues to decline. Competition could decrease our market share or force us to increase spending. The postsecondary education market in the United States is highly fragmented and competitive, with no single private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. Our campuses compete for students with degree- and non-degree-granting institutions, which include public and private nonprofit colleges and proprietary institutions, as well as with alternatives to higher education, such as military service or immediate employment. Certain public and private colleges offer programs similar to those offered by our campuses at a lower tuition cost due in part to government subsidies, foundation grants, tax deductible contributions or other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. Other proprietary institutions offer programs that compete with those of our campuses. Certain of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have greater financial and other resources than we do. All of these factors could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. We may be required to increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions. In August 2013, we acquired Cable Holdings, and in January 2014, we acquired Great Equalizer, Inc. and CompetenC Solutions, Inc. We may consider additional selective acquisitions of schools or education-related businesses in the future. We may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Acquisition challenges include, among others: • regulatory approvals; • significant capital expenditures; • assumption of known and unknown liabilities; • our ability to control costs; and • our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. An acquisition could result in: • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets; • charges relating to integration costs; and • an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders. -38- Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have an adverse effect on our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could disrupt our operations. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, violent acts and threats of future attacks could adversely affect the U.S. and world economies. Finally, future terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict that could further impact our operations and result in prospective students, as well as our current students and employees, entering military service. These factors could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God could have an adverse effect on our operations. Hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters and acts of God could disrupt our operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, natural disasters could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our campuses in that region and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, as well as required approvals by the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our By-Laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Those provisions could: • limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock; • discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change in control of us (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Certain of those provisions authorize us to: • issue “blank check” preferred stock; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes expiring in rotation; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, the ED, the ACs and most of the SAs have requirements pertaining to the change in ownership and/or control (collectively “change in control”) of institutions, but these requirements do not uniformly define what constitutes a change in control and are subject to varying interpretations as to whether a particular transaction constitutes a change in control. If we or any of our campuses experience a change in control under the standards of the ED, the ACs or the SAs, we or the affected campuses must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. Transactions or events that constitute a change in control for one or more of our regulatory agencies include: • the acquisition of a school from another entity; • significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock; and • significant changes to the composition of our, or any campus, Board of Directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, a required approval of any change in control from the relevant regulatory agencies could impair our ability or the ability of the affected campuses to participate in Title IV Programs, or could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in one or more states until we receive the required approval. A material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would result if we had a change in control and a material number of our campuses: • failed to timely obtain the approvals of the SAs required prior to or following a change in control; • failed to timely regain approval by the ACs for inclusion in their institution’s grant of accreditation or have their inclusion in that accreditation temporarily continued or reinstated by the ACs; • failed to timely regain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs from the ED or receive temporary certification to continue to participate in Title IV Programs pending further review by the ED; or • were subjected by the ED to restrictions that severely limited for a substantial period of time the number of new additional locations and/or new programs of study that are eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. The fact that a change in control would require approval of the relevant regulatory agencies, and the uncertainty and potential delay related to obtaining such approvals, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. -39- Table of Contents If we are unable to conclude successfully litigation against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, alleged violations of federal and state laws, claims involving students or graduates and routine employment matters. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and have incurred, and expect to incur, significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with these matters. Those costs and expenses have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our common stock. These matters have and will continue to cause substantial diversion of our management’s attention and resources from our ongoing business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters, or may be required to pay substantial fines or penalties, any of which could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our authorizations, licenses, accreditations and eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. See “Legal Proceedings.” The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding prospective students, students, their families and employees. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could subject us to costly claims or litigation, have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. Potential new federal or state laws and regulations also may increase our costs of compliance or limit our ability to use personal information to recruit students. Security breaches or system interruptions or delays involving our computer networks could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, limit our ability to attract and retain students and require us to expend significant resources. The performance and reliability of our computer systems are critical to our information management, reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could disrupt the provision of education to students attending our campuses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand the infrastructure of our computer systems on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand. Our computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to attract and retain students. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of those security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by those breaches. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our campuses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to distinctive marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use the “ITT” and related marks and course content developed by our faculty, our other employees and third party content experts. We cannot assure you that those measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect those rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our names, curricula and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by those attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in those disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content or mode of delivery of a course or a program of study. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights, such as certain patent rights, may be extremely broad, -40- Table of Contents and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid infringing upon those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation, regardless of whether the claim has merit. Our insurance coverage may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content or mode of delivery of our courses or programs of study, or pay significant monetary damages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. Those factors include, among others: • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in federal and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or changes in the way that laws, regulations and accreditation standards are interpreted and applied; • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto; • the effects of financial reporting matters, such as material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, restatements and the Consolidation; • actions by the NYSE, or uncertainty related to possible actions by the NYSE, related to the continued listing of our common stock; • negative media reports with respect to us and/or our industry; • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have affected the market prices of many companies in the proprietary, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • the amount and availability of financing for our students; • the short interest in our stock at any point in time; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. Those factors could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which those shares were purchased. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 