ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business may be impacted by the existence of the Orders for Royal Bank and the Federal Reserve Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Our success as a business is dependent upon pursuing various alternatives in not only achieving the growth and expansion of our banking franchise but also in managing our day to day operations. The existence of the Orders and the Federal Reserve Agreement limits and impacts our ability to pursue all previously available alternatives in the management of the Company. Our ability to retain existing retail and commercial customers as well as the ability to attract potentially new customers may be impacted by the existence of the Orders and the Federal Reserve Agreement. The Company has been successful in commercial real estate lending; however, our ability to expand into potentially attractive commercial real estate or construction loans at this time would most likely be limited. Our ability to obtain lines of credit, to receive attractive collateral treatment from funding sources, and to pursue all attractive funding alternatives in this current low interest rate environment could be potentially impacted and thereby limit liquidity alternatives. Royal Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company, which provides funding for cash dividends to the Company’s shareholders, will be limited as a result of the Orders. Moreover, the Company is prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Our ability to raise capital in the current economic environment could be potentially limited or impacted as a result of the 21 Orders. Attracting new management talent is critical to the success of our business and could be potentially impacted due to the existence of the Orders and the Federal Reserve Agreement. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which we operate. Our success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on the continued stability in real estate values in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of our loan portfolio, over 80% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. Our concentration of non-residential real estate and construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect our earnings. Our non-residential real estate and construction and land development loan portfolio held for investment was $284.1 million at December 31, 2010 comprising 57% of total loans. Non-residential real estate and construction and development loans are often riskier and tend to have significantly larger balances than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. While we believe that the commercial real estate concentration risk is mitigated by diversification among the types and characteristics of real estate collateral properties, sound underwriting practices, and ongoing portfolio monitoring and market analysis, the repayments of these loans usually depends on the successful operation of a business or the sale of the underlying property. As a result, these loans are more likely to be unfavorably affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy in general. The remaining loans in the portfolio are commercial or industrial loans. These loans are collateralized by various business assets the value of which may decline during adverse market and economic conditions. Adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy may result in increasing levels of loan charge-offs and non-performing assets and the reduction of earnings. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. Further, under guidance adopted by the federal banking regulators, banks which have concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans (other than loans for majority owner occupied properties) would be expected to maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, higher levels of capital. It is possible that Royal Bank may be required to maintain higher levels of capital than it would be otherwise be expected to maintain as a result of Royal Bank’s commercial real estate loans, which may require the Company to obtain additional capital sooner than it would otherwise seek it, which may reduce shareholder returns. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our current level of non-performing loans and future growth may require us to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. However, in order to maintain our well-capitalized status and to support future growth we may need to raise capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our 22 control, and on our financial performance. Under the Orders as described in “Regulatory Actions” under “Item 1 — Business” of this Report, Royal Bank is required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 8% and a Total risk-based capital ratio of 12% during the term of the Orders. In addition, on February 20, 2009, we issued 30,407 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, to the United States Department of Treasury under its TARP Capital Purchase Program, The Series A Preferred Stock issued to Treasury has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and contains other provisions, including restrictions on the payment of dividends on common stock and on repurchases of any shares of preferred stock ranking equal to or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock or common stock while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, which provisions may make it more difficult to raise additional capital on favorable terms while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding. Therefore, we may be unable to raise additional capital, or to raise capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when required, our ability to further expand operations through both internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional capital, the existing shareholders are subject to dilution. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include: analysis of a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, the Company may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may have interests different from our common shareholders. Since the Company has failed to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for a total of six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the Treasury currently has the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. Otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. For as long as shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of the shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock; any amendments to the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to adversely affect the rights, privileges, or voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock; or initiation and completion of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Series A Preferred Stock. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, including the Treasury, may have different interests from the holders of our common stock, and could vote to block the forgoing transactions, even when considered desirable by, or in the best interests of the holders of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, which are subject to regulatory limits and we are subject to other dividend limitations. We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our banking subsidiary, Royal Bank is our primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from our banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of Royal Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2010, as a result of significant losses within Royal Bank, the Company had negative retained earnings and therefore would not 23 have been able to declare and pay any cash dividends. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Under the Orders as described in “Regulatory Actions” under “Item 1 — Business” of this Report, Royal Bank must receive prior approval from the FDIC and the Department before declaring and paying a dividend to the Company. As a result of our participation in the Treasury’s TARP CPP on February 20, 2009, we are required to receive Treasury’s approval for any increases in the dividend above the amount of the last regular quarterly common stock dividend paid prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.15 per Class A share and $0.1725 per Class B share) and any repurchases of common stock. These restrictions on the payment of dividends and the repurchases of common stock will remain in effect until the earlier date of the third anniversary of the closing date of the preferred shares and the date of the redemption of the preferred shares. In addition, under the terms of the TARP CPP, we are not permitted to declare or pay cash dividends on, or redeem or otherwise acquire, stock that is junior to or on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock issued to Treasury at any time when we have not declared and paid full dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. We suspended regular quarterly cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock in August 2009 and, accordingly, are not permitted at this time to pay dividends on our Class A or Class B Common Stock. Under the terms of the Federal Reserve Agreement, we are prohibited from paying any dividends on shares of our stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Failure to pay dividends on our stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, Royal Bank faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. The Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over the Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The Company has a lower level of “core deposits” and a higher level of wholesale funding relative to our peer institutions. The Company achieved significant growth in the loan portfolio until two years ago. Because the Company’s retail deposits had not grown at similar rates, our funding sources were supplemented to include the national market (brokered CDs) to attract additional funds. During an environment when interest rates are rising and the related U.S. 24 Treasury interest rate curve is flattening, the use of this funding source may result in an increase in interest costs disproportionate to loan yields. This could result in reduced net interest income. During the past 18 months, loan balances have declined and the Company has reduced the outstanding amount of brokered CDs by $138 million, or 61%, in order to reduce this risk. Our ability to manage liquidity is always critical in our operation, but more so today given the uncertainty within the capital markets. We monitor and manage our liquidity position on a regular basis to insure that adequate funds are in place to manage the day to day operations and to cover routine fluctuations in available funds. However, our funding decisions can be influenced by unplanned events. These unplanned events include, but are not limited to, the inability to fund asset growth, difficulty renewing or replacing funds that mature, the ability to maintain or draw down lines of credit with other financial institutions, significant customer withdrawals of deposits, and market disruptions. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh had imposed an over collateralized delivery requirement of 105% on Royal Bank as a result of Royal Bank’s level of non-performing assets and losses incurred in 2009. The available amount for future borrowings will be based on the amount of collateral to be pledged. We have a liquidity contingency plan in the event liquidity falls below an acceptable level, however in today’s economic environment, we are not certain that those sources of liquid funds will be available in the future when required. As a result, loan growth may be curtailed to maintain adequate liquidity, loans may need to be sold in the secondary market, investments may need to be sold or deposits may need to be raised at above market interest rates to maintain liquidity. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Although the Company takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Company, as a larger diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk. Risks Related to Our Industry Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry, including the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will be responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws. The regulatory changes include, among other things, permanently raising the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000; establishing strengthened capital standards for banks, and disallowing trust preferred securities as qualifying as Tier 1 capital (subject to certain grandfather provisions for existing trust preferred securities); establishing new minimum mortgage underwriting standards; strengthening the SEC’s powers to regulate securities markets; granting the Federal Reserve Board the power to regulate debit card interchange fees; allowing financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts; and implementing provisions that affect corporate governance at all publicly traded companies. These changes are expected to impact our compliance costs resulting from significant changes in our policies and procedures. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, thus making it difficult to assess the impact of the statute on the Company, at this time. On October 3, 2008, EESA became law. EESA, among other measures, authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking 25 system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guarantee program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Additional similar actions may be forthcoming. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of mortgage, consumer, commercial and construction loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment may negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the immediate future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: § We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. § Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. § We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. § Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. § We may experience a prolonged decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. 26 § We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. § The unrealized losses in our investment portfolio may increase or be deemed other than temporary. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of our income is the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future growth. The Company and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of the Company and our subsidiaries. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws may negatively affect our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on the Company, these changes could be materially adverse to shareholders. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect our earnings. Acts or threats or terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Other Risks Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 57% of Class A common stock and 87% of Class B common stock as of February 28, 2011. As a result of their ownership, the directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. 27 The directors and executive officers may vote to cause the Company to take actions with which the other shareholders do not agree or that are not beneficial to all shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 