Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision with respect to any shares of our common stock. This report contains certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act (and Section 21E of the Exchange Act). These forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to, our - 11 - management. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are intended to be forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our or our management’s current views and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the following Risk Factors. Should one or more of those risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements in 2007 and beyond could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, those forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Highly Regulated Industry Failure of our institutes to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students or loss of our authorization to operate our institutes. In 2006, we indirectly derived approximately 61% of our revenue determined on an accrual accounting basis (or approximately 57% determined on a cash accounting basis as defined by the ED regulations) from Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate SEAs, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED and be certified as an eligible institution by the ED. As a result, our institutes are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, the SEAs and the ACICS, which is an accrediting commission recognized by the ED. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our: • education programs; • facilities; • instructional and administrative staff; • administrative procedures; • marketing; • student recruitment; • financial operations and financial condition; • operation of new institutes and addition of learning sites; • addition of new, or expansion of existing, education programs; and • changes in corporate structure and ownership. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by the ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under the ED’s definition, we have 29 such institutions. We currently operate one or more institutes in 33 states and our institutes recruit students in the remaining 17 states and the District of Columbia. The ED, the SEAs and the ACICS periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. We cannot predict with certainty how all of the requirements applied by these agencies will be interpreted or whether all of our institutes will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. If our institutes failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, these agencies could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on our institutes; • terminate or limit our institutes’ operations or ability to grant degrees and diplomas; • restrict or revoke our institutes’ accreditation; • limit, terminate or suspend our institutes’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require our institutes to repay funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs; • require us to post a letter of credit with the ED; • subject our institutes to heightened cash monitoring by the ED; • transfer our institutes from the ED’s advance system of receiving Title IV Program funds to its reimbursement system, under which a school must disburse its own funds to students and document the students’ eligibility for Title IV Program funds before receiving such funds from the ED; and • subject us or our institutes to other civil or criminal penalties. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. If any of our institutes lost its state authorization, the institute would be unable to offer postsecondary education and we would be forced to close the institute. If any of our institutes lost its accreditation, it would lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. If any of our institutes lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending that institute, we could be forced to close the institute. Closing any of our institutes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” The following are some of the specific risk factors related to our highly regulated industry: - 12 - Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV Programs. The U.S. Congress must reauthorize the HEA approximately every six years, which last occurred in 1998. In addition, the U.S. Congress can change the laws affecting Title IV Programs in the annual federal appropriations bills and other laws it enacts between the HEA reauthorizations. In 2005 and 2006, the U.S. Congress temporarily extended the provisions of the HEA, pending completion of the formal reauthorization process, and also enacted other laws affecting Title IV Programs. We believe that, in 2007, the U.S. Congress will either complete its reauthorization of the HEA or further extend the provisions of the HEA. Numerous changes to the HEA are likely to result from any further reauthorization and, possibly, from any extension of the existing provisions of the HEA, but at this time we cannot predict all of the changes that the U.S. Congress will ultimately make. In January 2007, the political party to which a majority of the members of both houses of the U.S. Congress are affiliated changed from the Republican party to the Democratic party. As a result, it is possible that the Democrat-controlled U.S. Congress will revise provisions of the HEA in significantly different ways than were being considered by the Republican-controlled U.S. Congress in 2005 and 2006. Since a significant percentage of our revenue is indirectly derived from Title IV Programs, any action by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduces Title IV Program funding or the ability of our institutes or students to participate in Title IV Programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one or more of our institutes lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, or if the U.S. Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV Program funding, we would try to arrange or provide alternative sources of financial aid for the students at the affected institutes. We cannot assure you that one or more private organizations would be willing to provide loans to students attending those institutes or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as for Title IV Program loans. In addition, the private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance and we might incur other additional costs. If we provided more direct financial assistance to our students, we would incur additional costs and assume increased credit risks. Legislative action may also increase our administrative costs and burden and require us to modify our practices in order for our institutes to comply fully with the legislative requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. One or more of our institutes may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if its student loan default rates are too high. Under the HEA, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs, if the rates at which the institution’s students default on their federal student loans exceed specified percentages. The ED calculates these rates on an institutional basis, based on the number of students who have defaulted, not the dollar amount of such defaults. The ED calculates an institution’s cohort default rate on an annual basis as the rate at which borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one year default on those loans by the end of the next year. Each institution participating in the FFEL and/or the FDL programs receives a FFEL/FDL cohort default rate for each federal fiscal year based on defaulted FFEL and FDL program loans. A federal fiscal year is October 1 through September 30. An institution whose FFEL/FDL cohort default rate is: • 25% or greater for three consecutive federal fiscal years loses eligibility to participate in the FFEL, FDL and Pell programs for the remainder of the federal fiscal year in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent federal fiscal years; or • greater than 40% for one federal fiscal year loses eligibility to participate in the FFEL and FDL programs for the remainder of the federal fiscal year in which the ED determines that the institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent federal fiscal years. An institution can appeal this loss of eligibility. During the pendency of any such appeal, the institution remains eligible to participate in the FFEL, FDL and Pell programs. If an institution continues its participation in the FFEL and/or FDL programs during the pendency of any such appeal and the appeal is unsuccessful, the institution must pay the ED the amount of interest, special allowance, reinsurance and any related payments paid by the ED (or which the ED is obligated to pay) with respect to the FFEL and FDL program loans made to the institution’s students or their parents that would not have been made if the institution had not continued its participation (the “Direct Costs”). If a substantial number of our campus groups were subject to losing their eligibility to participate because of their FFEL/FDL cohort default rates, the potential amount of the Direct Costs for which we would be liable if our appeals were unsuccessful would prevent us from continuing some or all of the affected campus groups’ participation in the FFEL and/or FDL programs during the pendency of those appeals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following table sets forth the range of our campus groups’ FFEL/FDL cohort default rates for the federal fiscal years indicated: - 13 - Federal Fiscal Year FFEL/FDL Cohort Default Rate Range 2005 (a) 6.2% to 13.1% 2004 (b) 5.8% to 12.7% 2003 4.5% to 10.2% 2002 2.1% to 12.0% (a) The most recent year for which the ED has published FFEL/FDL preliminary cohort default rates. (b) The most recent year for which the ED has published FFEL/FDL official cohort default rates. If an institution’s FFEL/FDL cohort default rate is 25% or greater in any of the three most recent federal fiscal years, or if its cohort default rate for loans under the Federal Perkins Loan (the “Perkins”) program exceeds 15% for any federal award year, the ED may place that institution on provisional certification status. A federal award year is July 1 through June 30. We no longer participate in the Perkins program and our students have not received any loans under the Perkins program since 2002. The servicing and collection efforts of student loan lenders and guaranty agencies help to control our FFEL/FDL cohort default rates. We are not affiliated with any student loan lenders or guaranty agencies. We supplement their efforts by attempting to contact students to advise them of their responsibilities and any deferment or forbearance for which they may qualify. If any of our campus groups lost its eligibility to participate in FFEL, FDL and Pell programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the institutes in that campus group, we would probably have to close those institutes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations in order to continue our institutes’ participation in Title IV Programs, state authorization and accreditation, if we or our institutes do not meet the financial standards of the ED, the SEAs or the ACICS. The ED, the SEAs and the ACICS prescribe specific financial conditions and operations that an institution must satisfy to participate in Title IV Programs, operate in a state and be accredited. The ED evaluates institutions for compliance with its standards each year, based on the institution’s annual audited financial statements, as well as following any change of control of the institution and when the institution is reviewed for recertification by the ED. The most significant financial responsibility measurement is the institution’s composite score, which is calculated by the ED based on three ratios: • the equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability; • the primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources; and • the net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit. The ED assigns a strength factor to the results of each of these ratios on a scale from negative 1.0 to positive 3.0, with negative 1.0 reflecting financial weakness and positive 3.0 reflecting financial strength. The ED then assigns a weighting percentage to each ratio and adds the weighted scores for the three ratios together to produce a composite score for the institution. The composite score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible by the ED without the need for further oversight. Our campus groups’ composite score, based on our fiscal year consolidated financial statements at the parent company level, was 2.2 in 2006 and 3.0 in 2005. The decrease in our composite score in 2006 was due to our repurchase in 2006 of 5.6 million shares of our common stock for $363.0 million. In December 2006, we borrowed $150 million under a revolving credit facility to allow us to continue repurchasing shares of our common stock while maintaining compliance with the ED's financial responsibility standards. See Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In evaluating an institution’s compliance with the financial responsibility standards, the ED may examine the financial statements of the individual institution, the institution’s parent company, or any party related to the institution. Historically, the ED has evaluated the financial condition of our institutions on a consolidated basis based on our financial statements at the parent company level. If the ED determines that an institution does not satisfy the ED's financial responsibility standards, the institution may establish its financial responsibility on one of several alternative bases, including posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to a specified percentage of the total Title IV Program funds received by the institution during the institution's most recently completed fiscal year and, in some cases, agreeing to receive Title IV Program funds under an arrangement other than the ED's standard advance funding - 14 - arrangement while being provisionally certified. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows. One or more of our institutes may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions, if it does not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for, or refund monies paid by or on behalf of, students who withdraw before completing their program of study. The HEA and its implementing regulations impose limits on the amount of Title IV Program funds withdrawing students can use to pay their education costs (the “Return Policy”). The Return Policy permits a student to use only a pro rata portion of the Title IV Program funds that the student would otherwise be eligible to use, if the student withdraws during the first 60% of any period of enrollment. For our institutes, a period of enrollment is generally an academic quarter. The institution must calculate and return to the appropriate lenders or the ED any Title IV Program funds that the institution receives on behalf of a withdrawing student in excess of the amount the student can use for such period of enrollment. The institution must return those unearned funds in a timely manner which, prior to July 2006, was generally within 30 days of the date the institution determined that the student had withdrawn. Beginning in July 2006, an institution generally has up to 45 days after it determines a student’s withdrawal date to return unearned funds. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution is found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. No audit or review has found that any of our institutes was violating the ED’s standard on the timely return of unearned Title IV Program funds. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. The standards of most of the SEAs and the ACICS limit a student’s obligation to an institution for tuition and fees, if a student withdraws from the institution (the “Refund Policy”). The specific standards vary among the SEAs. Depending on when during an academic quarter a student withdraws and the applicable Refund Policy, in many instances the student remains obligated to the ITT Technical Institute for some or all of the student’s education costs that were paid by the Title IV Program funds returned under the Return Policy. In these instances, many withdrawing students are unable to pay all of their education costs, unless the students have access to other sources of financial aid. We have arranged for an unaffiliated private funding source to offer eligible students loans that can help replace any Title IV Program funds that are returned if any of those students withdraw. We believe that other unaffiliated private funding sources would also be willing to make these types of loans available to our students, but we cannot assure you of this. If these types of loans were unavailable, we could be unable to collect a significant portion of many withdrawing students’ education costs that would have been paid by the Title IV Program funds that were returned, which, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. One or more of our institutes may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, if the percentage of its revenue derived from those programs is too high. Under a provision of the HEA commonly referred to as the “90/10” Rule, a for-profit institution becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs if, on a cash accounting basis, the institution derives more than 90% of its applicable revenue for a fiscal year from Title IV Programs. If any of our campus groups violated the 90/10 Rule for any fiscal year, it would be ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs as of the first day of the following fiscal year and would be unable to apply to regain its eligibility until the next fiscal year. Furthermore, if one of our campus groups violated the 90/10 Rule and became ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs but continued to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the institution to repay, with limited exceptions, all Title IV Program funds disbursed by the institution after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. For our 2006 fiscal year, none of our campus groups derived more than 66% of its revenue on a cash accounting basis from Title IV Programs, with a range from approximately 50% to approximately 66%. We regularly monitor compliance with this requirement to minimize the risk that any of our campus groups would derive more than the maximum allowable percentage of its applicable revenue from Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If a campus group appeared likely to approach the maximum percentage threshold, we would consider making changes in student financing to comply with the 90/10 Rule, but we cannot assure you that we would be able to do this in a timely manner or at all. If any of our campus groups lost its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and we could not arrange for alternative financing sources for the students attending the institutes in that campus group, we would probably have to close those institutes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure by one or more of our institutes to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability requirements could result in financial penalties, limitations on the institute’s participation in Title IV Programs, loss of Title IV Program funds for its students or the repayment of Title IV Program funds received by its students. To participate in Title IV - 15 - Programs, an institution must satisfy criteria of administrative capability prescribed by the ED. The most significant of these criteria require that the institution: • demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of its programs and the entry-level job requirements of the relevant fields of employment; • comply with all of the applicable Title IV Program regulations prescribed by the ED; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs; • define and measure the satisfactory academic progress of its students within parameters specified by the ED; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students who receive Title IV Program funds; and • timely submit all required reports and financial statements to the ED. If the ED determines that an institution is not capable of adequately administering its participation in any of the Title IV Programs, the ED could: • impose monetary fines or penalties on the institution; • require the institution to repay funds received under Title IV Programs; • restrict the institution’s receipt of Title IV Program funds; and • limit or terminate the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. Each of these sanctions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and impose significant operating restrictions on us. In addition, an institution is deemed by the ED to lack administrative capability if its FFEL/FDL cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for any of the three most recent federal fiscal years for which such rates have been published, or if its Perkins cohort default rate exceeds 15% for any federal award year. If an institution’s administrative capability is impaired solely because its FFEL/FDL and/or Perkins cohort default rates exceed the percentages specified above, the institution can continue to participate in Title IV Programs, but the ED may place the institution on provisional certification. See "– We cannot operate new institutes, add learning sites or offer new programs if they are not timely approved by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs if we do not obtain prior approval." We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities. An institution participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The ED’s regulations set forth 12 types of activities and payment arrangements that an institution may carry out without violating this HEA provision (the “Safe Harbors”). One of the Safe Harbors permits the payment of fixed compensation, such as a fixed annual salary or hourly wage, so long as the fixed compensation is not adjusted up or down more than twice during any 12-month period, and any adjustment to the fixed compensation is not based solely on the number of students recruited, admitted, enrolled or awarded financial aid. We believe that we have compensated the applicable employees in accordance with this Safe Harbor and other Safe Harbors, but the law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, and the ED has stated that it will no longer entertain a request by an institution or company for the ED to review and assess its individual compensation plan. If the ED determined that an institution’s compensation practices violated these standards, the ED could subject the institution to monetary fines or penalties or other sanctions. Any substantial fine or penalty or other sanction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot operate new institutes, add learning sites or offer new programs if they are not timely approved by our regulators, and we may have to repay Title IV Program funds disbursed to students enrolled at any of those locations or in any of those programs if we do not obtain prior approval. Our expansion plans assume that we will be able to continue to obtain the necessary ED, ACICS and SEA approvals to establish new institutes, add learning sites to our existing institutes and expand the program offerings at our existing institutes in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain the approvals from the ED, the ACICS or the relevant SEAs for any new institutes, learning sites or program offerings where such approvals are required, or to obtain such approvals in a timely manner, our ability to operate the new institutes, add the learning sites or offer the new programs as planned would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. The process of obtaining any required state and ACICS authorizations can also delay our operating new institutes, adding learning sites or offering new programs. In certain circumstances, the state laws and regulations in effect in the states where we are located or anticipate establishing a new location or the ACICS standards may limit our ability to establish new institutes and learning sites and expand the programs offered at an institute, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. - 16 - In addition, an institution that is eligible to participate in Title IV Programs may add a new location or program without the ED's approval only if certain requirements are met. Otherwise, the institution must obtain the ED's approval before it may disburse Title IV Program funds to students in the new location or program. If we were to erroneously determine that a new location or program is eligible for Title IV Program funding, we would likely be liable for repayment of the Title IV Program funds provided to students in that location or program. See "Business – Highly Regulated Industry." A high percentage of the Title IV Program loans that our students receive are made by a small number of lenders and guaranteed by one guaranty agency. Our students have historically received their FFEL program loans from a limited number of lending institutions. In our 2006 fiscal year, one lender provided approximately 73% and one other lender provided approximately 26% of the FFEL program loans that our students received, and one student loan guaranty agency guaranteed approximately 100% of the FFEL program loans made to our students. If FFEL program loans by our primary lenders or guarantees of those loans by our primary guaranty agency were significantly reduced or no longer available and we were unable to timely identify other lenders and guaranty agencies to make and guarantee FFEL program loans for our students, that could: • delay our students’ receipt of their loans; • increase our receivables; • cause our student population to decrease; and • have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If regulators do not timely approve a change in control of us or any of our institutes, the ability of the affected institutes to participate in Title IV Programs or operate may be impaired. The ED, the ACICS and most of the SEAs have requirements pertaining to the change in ownership and/or control (collectively "change in control") of institutions, but these requirements do not uniformly define what constitutes a change in control and are subject to varying interpretations as to whether a particular transaction constitutes a change in control. If we or any of our institutes experience a change in control under the standards of the ED, the ACICS or any of the SEAs, we or the affected institutes must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. Transactions or events that constitute a change in control for one or more of our regulatory agencies include: • the acquisition of a school from another entity; • significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock; and • significant changes to the composition of our Board of Directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, a required approval of any change in control from the ED, the ACICS or any of the SEAs in states in which our institutes are located could impair our ability or the ability of the affected institutes to participate in Title IV Programs. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, a required approval of any change in control from the SEA in any state in which we do not have an institute but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. A material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would result if we had a change in control and a material number of our institutes: • failed to timely obtain the approvals of the SEAs required prior to or following a change in control; • failed to timely regain accreditation by the ACICS or have their accreditation temporarily continued or reinstated by the ACICS; • failed to timely regain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs from the ED or receive temporary certification to continue to participate in Title IV Programs pending further review by the ED; or • were subjected by the ED to restrictions that severely limited for a substantial period of time the number of new additional locations and/or new programs of study that are eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. In addition, the fact that a change in control would require approval of the relevant regulatory agencies could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring claims or actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to our institutes, which could require us to pay monetary damages, receive other sanctions and expend significant resources to defend those claims or actions. Due to the highly regulated nature of the postsecondary education industry, we are subject to claims of non-compliance with regulatory standards and other actions brought by our regulatory agencies, students, shareholders and other parties. If the results of any of those claims are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, operational limitations, loss of eligibility to participate in federal or state financial aid programs, debarments, additional oversight and reporting, or other civil and criminal sanctions. Those - 17 - sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we satisfactorily resolve the issues raised by those types of claims, we may have to expend significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address and defend those claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse publicity regarding any of those claims could also negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock. See “Business – Highly Regulated Industry.” Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. The operations of a number of companies in the postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny, especially over the last few years. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the U. S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the SEC, the ED, the SEAs or other state agencies. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on our industry as a whole and on the market price of our common stock. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our student population. Some states may provide financial aid to our students, such as California, Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. From time to time, states face budget constraints that may cause them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. Some of those states may decide to reduce the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of those reductions may be or how long they could last. If the level of state funding for our students decreased and our students were not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively identify, establish and operate new institutes and learning sites, our growth may be slowed. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate operating new institutes and adding learning sites to existing institutes at locations throughout the United States. Establishing new institutes and learning sites poses challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of existing institutes. To operate a new institute or add a learning site, we would be required to obtain the appropriate approvals from the SEAs and the ACICS, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, a new institute or learning site may have to be certified by the ED. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new institutes or learning sites. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established institutes or learning sites could slow our growth, make any newly established institutes or learning sites more costly to operate than we had planned and have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Geographically Expand Our Institutes and Program Offerings.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively identify, develop, obtain approval to offer and teach new and/or higher-level degree programs in a cost-effective and timely manner. Part of our business strategy also includes increasing the number and level of degree programs offered at our institutes. Developing and offering new degree programs pose challenges and require us to make investments in research and development, management and capital expenditures, to incur marketing and advertising expenses and to devote other resources that are in addition to, and in some cases greater than, those associated with our current program offerings. In order to offer new and higher-level degree programs at our institutes, we would be required to obtain the appropriate approvals from the ED, the SEAs, the ACICS and, in certain circumstances, specialized programmatic accrediting agencies, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify new programs to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, that we will be able to obtain the requisite approvals to offer new and/or higher-level degree programs at our institutes or that students will enroll in any new and/or higher-level degree programs that we offer at our institutes. Any failure by us to effectively identify, develop, obtain approval to offer and teach new and/or higher-level degree programs at our institutes could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and results of operations. See “Business – Business Strategy – Enhance Results at the Institute Level.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technical skills and also appropriate soft skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. The skills that employees need may evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of - 18 - our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by the employers we serve or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among working adults and, to a lesser extent, recent high school graduates. The awareness of our programs among working adults and, to a lesser extent, recent high school graduates is important to the success of our institutes. If we were unable to successfully market or advertise our programs, our ability to attract and enroll prospective students in our programs would be adversely affected and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability would be impaired. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing or advertising our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • employer dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and • diminished access to high school students. The vast majority of private student loans received by our students are made by one lender and serviced by one loan servicer. In 2006, we indirectly derived approximately 34% of our revenue from unaffiliated, private loan programs that were made available to eligible students at our institutes to help fund a portion of the students’ cost of education. The vast majority of these private loan programs are offered by one lender and serviced by one affiliated loan servicer. If that lender or loan servicer ended the programs or reduced the volume of loans made or serviced under the programs in the near future and we were unable to timely identify other lenders and loan servicers to make and service private loans for our students and their parents on similar terms, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected, our receivables could increase and our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our loss of key personnel could harm our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school administrators and corporate management. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for teaching, financial aid, student recruiting, career services and registration. Our ability to develop a strong team of employees with these responsibilities may be affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to timely and effectively train and motivate our employees in order for them to become productive; • restrictions imposed by regulatory bodies on the method of compensating employees with certain of these responsibilities; • the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining employees with these responsibilities; • our ability to attract enough prospective students to our program offerings; and • our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, retain, develop and train employees who are responsible for teaching, financial aid, student recruiting, career services or registration, the effectiveness of our operations would be adversely affected. Competition could decrease our market share, cause us to reduce tuition or force us to increase spending. The postsecondary education market in the United States is highly fragmented and competitive, with no single private or public institution enjoying a significant market share. Our institutes compete for students with graduate, bachelor and associate degree-granting institutions, which include nonprofit public and private colleges and for-profit institutions, as well as with alternatives to higher education such as military service or immediate employment. We believe competition among educational institutions is based on: • the quality and reliability of the institution’s programs and student services; - 19 - • the perceived reputation of the institution and its programs and student services; • the cost of the institution’s programs; • the employability of the institution’s graduates; • the ability to provide easy and convenient access to the institution’s programs and courses; • the quality and experience of the institution’s faculty; and • the time required to complete the institution’s programs. Certain public and private colleges offer programs similar to those offered by our institutes at a lower tuition cost due in part to government subsidies, foundation grants, tax deductible contributions or other financial resources not available to for-profit institutions. Other for-profit institutions offer programs that compete with those of our institutes. Certain of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have greater financial and other resources than we do. All of these factors could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively. We may be required to reduce tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. High interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Low interest rates create a less expensive and more favorable borrowing environment for our students. Since much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates, higher interest rates cause a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their education, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our institutes and in our revenue. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of Title IV Program and private loans. High default rates may, in turn, adversely impact our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and/or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to our students, which could result in a reduction in the number of students attending our institutes. Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on our seasonal student enrollment patterns. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our quarterly results of operations have tended to fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in our total student population. Our student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our revenue in our third and fourth fiscal quarters has generally benefited from increased student matriculations. The number of new students entering our institutes tends to be substantially higher in June and September. Our institutes’ academic schedule generally does not affect our incurrence of most of our costs, however, and our costs do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We believe that quarterly fluctuations in results of operations should continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. These patterns may change, however, as a result of operating new institutes, adding learning sites, new program offerings and increased enrollment of adult students. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Variations in Quarterly Results of Operations.” Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have an adverse effect on our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could disrupt our operations. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, violent acts and threats of future attacks could adversely affect the U.S. and world economies. Finally, future terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict that could further impact our operations and result in prospective students, as well as our current students and employees, entering military service. These factors could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our institutes and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 20 - Natural disasters and other acts of God could have an adverse effect on our operations. Hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters and acts of God could disrupt our operations. Natural disasters and other acts of God that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs of study to our students and, thereby, impair our ability to achieve our financial and operational goals. Furthermore, natural disasters could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which could cause significant declines in the number of students who attend our institutes in that region and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2005, we were forced to temporarily close our institute that is located in St. Rose, Louisiana due to a Gulf Coast hurricane. While the institute’s facility did not incur extensive physical damage, the hurricane’s impact on the region adversely affected the institute’s total student enrollment, which had an adverse effect on our results of operations in 2006. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our By-Laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Those provisions could: • limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock; • discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change in control of us (including unsolicited takeover attempts), even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. Certain of those provisions authorize us to: • issue “blank check” preferred stock; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes expiring in rotation; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent. If we are unable to conclude successfully litigation against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. In the ordinary conduct of our business, we and our institutes are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students or graduates and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage to resolve those matters, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. See “Legal Proceedings.” In connection with the DOJ investigation of us, the inquiry initiated by the SEC into allegations investigated by the DOJ and the securities class action, shareholder derivative and books and records inspections lawsuits, we have incurred substantial legal costs, and management's attention and resources have been diverted from our business. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. Our institutes collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our computer networks could damage our reputation and limit our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of our computer systems are critical to our information management, reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could disrupt the provision of education to students attending our institutes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand the infrastructure of our computer systems on a timely basis sufficient - 21 - to meet demand. Our computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to attract and retain students. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our institutes and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt operations and require us to expend significant resources. Our computer systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of those security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by those breaches. These factors could affect the number of students who attend our institutes and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. Those factors include, among others: • our ability to meet or exceed our own forecasts or expectations of analysts or investors; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in ED and state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or changes in the way those entities interpret and apply their laws, regulations and standards; • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any adverse publicity related thereto; • changes in our own forecasts or earnings estimates by analysts; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many companies in the for-profit, postsecondary education industry in recent periods; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. Those factors could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which those shares were purchased. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 