ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which we operate. Our success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on the continued stability in real estate values in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of our loan portfolio, over 80% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. Our concentration of non-residential real estate and construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect our earnings. Our non-residential real estate and construction loan portfolio was $496.5 million at December 31, 2008 comprising 71% of total loans. Non-residential real estate and construction loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. In the event of a general economic slowdown, they would represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, which are subject to regulatory limits. We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our two banking subsidiaries, Royal Bank and Royal Asian, are our primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from our banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of Royal Bank and Royal Asian to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2008, as a result of significant losses within Royal Bank, the Company had negative retained earnings and therefore would not have been able to declare and pay any cash dividends. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as a result of our participation in the Treasury’s TARP CPP on February 20, 2009, we are required to receive Treasury’s approval for any increases in the dividend above the amount of the last regular quarterly common stock dividend paid and any repurchases of common stock. These restrictions on the payment of dividends and the repurchases of common stock become effective immediately and remain in effect until the earlier date of the third anniversary of the closing date of the preferred shares and the date of the redemption of the preferred shares. 19 Table of Contents Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, Royal Bank and Royal Asian face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. The Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over the Company’s banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include: analysis of a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, the Company may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria. Our future growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. In addition, on February 20, 2009, we issued 30,407 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, to the United States Department of Treasury under its TARP Capital Purchase Program, The Series A Preferred Stock issued to Treasury has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and contains other provisions, including restrictions on the payment of dividends on common stock and on repurchases of any shares of preferred stock ranking equal to or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock or common stock while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, which provisions may make it more difficult to raise additional capital on favorable 20 Table of Contents terms while the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding. Therefore, we may be unable to raise additional capital, or to raise capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when required, our ability to further expand operations through both internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional capital, the existing shareholders are subject to dilution. Our ability to manage liquidity is always critical in our operation, but more so today given the uncertainty within the capital markets. We monitor and manage our liquidity position on a regular basis to insure that adequate funds are in place to manage the day to day operations and to cover routine fluctuations in available funds. However, our funding decisions can be influenced by unplanned events. These unplanned events include, but are not limited to, the inability to fund asset growth, difficulty renewing or replacing funds that mature, the ability to maintain or draw down lines of credit with other financial institutions, significant customer withdrawals of deposits, and market disruptions. In 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh notified Royal Bank that they were being placed on full delivery status meaning that all current and future borrowings must be fully collateralized. The available amount for future borrowings will be based on the amount of collateral to be pledged. We have a liquidity contingency plan in the event liquidity falls below an acceptable level, however in today’s economic environment, we are not certain that those sources of liquid funds will be available in the future when required. As a result, loan growth may be curtailed to maintain adequate liquidity, loans may need to be sold in the secondary market, investments may need to be sold or deposits may need to be raised at above market interest rates to maintain liquidity. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Although the Company takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Company, as a larger diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk. Risks Related to Our Industry Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) became law. EESA, among other measures, authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guarantee program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Additional similar actions may be forthcoming. 21 Table of Contents On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program (“TLGP”) to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt including promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding. The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of mortgage, consumer, commercial and construction loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment may negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the immediate future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: § We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. § Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. § We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. § Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. § We may experience a prolonged decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. § We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. § The unrealized losses in our investment portfolio may increase or be deemed other than temporary. 22 Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of our income is the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future growth. The Company and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of the Company and our subsidiaries. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws may negatively affect our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on the Company, these changes could be materially adverse to shareholders. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect our earnings. Acts or threats or terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Other Risks Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 36% of Class A common stock and 79% of Class B common stock as of February 28, 2009. As a result of their ownership, the directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The directors and executive officers may vote to cause the Company to take actions with which the other shareholders do not agree or that are not beneficial to all shareholders. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. SEC STAFF COMMENTS On September 19, 2007, the Company received a Comment Letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning our December 31, 2006 Form 10-K, March 31, 2007 Form 10-Q, and the June 30, 2007 Form 10-Q. The Company responded to this Comment Letter on February 22, 2008. On February 1, 2008, the Company received a Comment Letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to our Form 8-K filed on January 29, 2008. The Company responded to this Comment Letter on February 13, 2008. On November 5, 2008, the Commission advised the Company that the Commission had completed its review of the subject filings and has no further comments at the present time. 