ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our recent operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. Royal Bancshares may not be able to sustain its growth. Various factors (discussed below) such as increased size, economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, competition and the ability to find and retain employees who can make Royal Bancshares’ community-focused operating model successful, may impede its ability to expand its market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our growth rate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies and real estate markets in which we operate. Our success significantly depends on the growth in population, income levels, loans and deposits and on the continued stability in real estate values in our markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas, specifically decreases in real estate property values due to the nature of our loan portfolio, over 85% of which is secured by real estate, could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Royal Bancshares is less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of more diverse economies. Our concentration of commercial and construction loans is subject to unique risks that could adversely affect our earnings. Our commercial and construction loan portfolio was $256 million at December 31, 2007, comprising 39% of total loans. Commercial and construction loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. In the event of a general economic slowdown, they would represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. Our ability to pay dividends depends primarily on dividends from our banking subsidiary, which are subject to regulatory limits. We are a bank holding company and our operations are conducted by direct and indirect subsidiaries, each of which is a separate and distinct legal entity. Substantially all of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our two banking subsidiaries, Royal Bank and Royal Asian, are our primary source of dividends. Dividend payments from our banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of Royal Bank and Royal Asian to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. At December 31, 2007, approximately $8.5 million was available without the need for regulatory approval for the payment of dividends to us from our banking subsidiary. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries 17 Table of Contents will be able to pay dividends in the future or that we will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Failure to pay dividends on our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, Royal Bank and Royal Asian face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds. Royal Bancshares’ banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over Royal Bancshares’ banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. Royal Bancshares seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices often include: analysis of a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, Royal Bancshares may incur losses on loans that meet these criteria. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to Royal Bancshares’ earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from Royal Bancshares’ actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our 18 Table of Contents ability to keep and attract customers and can expose Royal Bancshares to litigation and regulatory action. Although Royal Bancshares takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, Royal Bancshares, as a larger diversified financial services company with a high industry profile, is inherently exposed to this risk. The lower net income earned during the second quarter of 2007 was the result of $1.0 million reduction to net income related to accounting errors in 2006 and prior years, a decrease in interest income related to transferring loans to non-accrual status during the first six months of 2007 and the continued pressures on funding costs. In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we identified and reported certain material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement of such financial statements or our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may not be timely. Such events could negatively affect our stock price. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each quarter and as of the end of the year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our management concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. See the discussion included in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the material weaknesses identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be adequately remedied or will be fully remedied by any specific date. In addition, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements or cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations. A failure to timely meet our reporting obligations could, among other things, cause us to be ineligible for continued listing of our Class A common stock on Nasdaq. Such events could negatively affect our stock price. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of our income is the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future growth. Royal Bancshares and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of the operations of Royal Bancshares and our subsidiaries. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. Any changes to these laws may negatively affect our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on Royal Bancshares, these changes could be materially adverse to shareholders. Changes in accounting standards could impact earnings. The regulatory bodies that set accounting standards, including the FASB and SEC, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Royal Bancshares’s consolidated financial statements. These accounting changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and operation results. It is also possible that Royal Bancshares could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard on a retroactive basis, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statement. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit is accumulated and communicated to management and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by any unauthorized override of the controls. Thus, because of the inherent limitations in our control systems, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Changes in consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect the Royal Bancshares’ financial results. 19 Table of Contents Technology and other changes now allow many consumers to complete financial transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect our operations, and Royal Bancshares may be unable to timely develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect our earnings. Acts or threats or terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Other Risks. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 64% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of February 29, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors, executive officers and principal shareholders will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The directors and executive officers may vote to cause Royal Bancshares to take actions with which the other shareholders do not agree or that are not beneficial to all shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. On September 19, 2007 Royal Bancshares received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning our December 31, 2006 Form 10-K, March 31, 2007 Form 10-Q, and the June 30, 2007 Form 10-Q. Royal Bancshares responded to this comment letter on February 22, 2008. As of the date of this Form 10-K, Royal Bancshares has not received a response from the Commission with regard to such comments, or such comments remain unresolved. On February 1, 2008 Royal Bancshares received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to our Form 8-K filed on January 29, 2008, Royal Bancshares responded to this comment Letter on February 13, 2008. . As of the date of this Form 10-K, Royal Bancshares has not received a response from the Commission with regard to such comments, and such comments remain unresolved. 