Item 1A. Risk Factors We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market. The significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results are set forth below. We are currently undergoing investigations by the United States Attorney’s Office and by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We cannot predict the scope, timing or the outcomes of these investigations. On September 29, 2010, the Company announced that it had accepted the resignation of ReiJane Huai, its President and Chief Executive Officer, and the Chairman of its Board of Directors, following his disclosure to the Company that certain improper payments allegedly were made in connection with the Company’s licensing of software to one customer. At the same time, the Company announced that it was cooperating fully with law enforcement authorities with respect to an ongoing investigation into the matter, that it had formed a Special Committee of the Board to conduct a full internal investigation, and that the Special Committee had retained counsel to assist it in its investigation. In addition, the counsel to the Special Committee retained independent forensic accountants to review the Company’s practices. On November 10, 2010, counsel retained to assist with the internal investigation presented its report to the Special Committee. Initially, the New York County District Attorney’s Office commenced an investigation but thereafter, for reasons unknown to the Company, ceased its investigation. Separately, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (“USAO”) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) each commenced investigations. In October 2010, in connection with the USAO investigation, the Company received a grand jury subpoena seeking all documents relating to the Company’s September 29, 2010, disclosure of the improper payments. Since that time, the Company has received additional subpoenas and document requests from the USAO seeking, among other things, documents relating to certain of the Company’s employees and other information about the Company. 13 Table of Contents Also in October 2010, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC seeking, among other things, documentation relating to the Company’s dealings with the customer in connection with whose licensing of software improper payments were made and documentation relating to certain of the Company’s accounting practices. Since that time, the Company has received additional subpoenas seeking among other things, information related to certain of the Company’s employees, customers, policies and practices. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigations of both the USAO and the SEC and has produced documents responsive to both subpoenas and the additional document request. We intend to produce more documentation, if and when requested by the USAO and the SEC and to continue to cooperate fully with both investigations. In addition, the Company recorded an accrual of $7.5 million for certain costs associated with the possible resolution of the government investigations. The Company cannot predict the scope, timing, or outcomes of the USAO and SEC investigations, which may include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive, or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be significant, suspensions or debarments from government contracts, and other remedies and sanctions, any of which could lead to an adverse impact on its credit ratings and ability to obtain financing, an adverse impact on its stock price, loss of additional senior management, the inability to attract or retain key employees, and the loss of customers. In addition, under the law, any illegal acts of its employees may be ascribed to the Company. The Company cannot predict what impact, if any, these matters may have on its business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. While these investigations are ongoing, the Company is spending substantial resources, both monetary and in human capital, dealing with and responding to the requests of the USAO and the SEC. We may not be able to resolve the investigations by the United States Attorney’s Office and by the Securities and Exchange Commission in a manner favorable to the Company. We cannot predict whether the reserves we have taken will be adequate to cover any potential fines, penalties or other payments as part of a resolution of the investigations. We cannot predict the scope, timing, or outcomes of the USAO and SEC investigations, which may include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive, or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be significant, suspensions or debarments from government contracts, and other remedies and sanctions, and whether we will be able to resolve the investigations in a manner favorable to the Company. For the year ended December 31, 2011 we have accrued a total of $7.5 million for certain costs associated with the possible resolution of the government investigations. This is the amount that we can reasonably estimate now, but there can be no guarantee that this amount will be sufficient to satisfy any fines, penalties or other payments or costs, that might be imposed on us, in addition to any prejudgment interest on such payments. We are among the defendants in a class action lawsuit by stockholders. We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of these actions, or whether we have adequate insurance to cover our costs and any damages. We are defendants in a class action lawsuit brought by Company shareholders (the “Class Action”). The other defendants are James Weber, our former CFO and Vice President for Operations, and the estate of ReiJane Huai. Mr. Huai was our former Chairman, President and CEO. The Class Action complaint alleges that the defendants defrauded shareholders by falsely certifying in our SEC filings that they had disclosed any fraud, whether or not material, that involved management or other employees who had a significant role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. The Class Action complaint alleges that the defendants were in fact aware of fraud. We have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. Certain of the defendants may be entitled to indemnification by the Company under the laws of Delaware and/or our by-laws. 14 Table of Contents We cannot predict when the Class Action will be resolved or its outcome. While we have insurance policies that we believe cover us for the allegations of the Class Action, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to cover the costs of our defense of the Class Action or any damages that might be awarded against us or any defendant(s) to whom we owe indemnification. Our insurers may deny coverage under the policies. If the plaintiffs are awarded damages and our insurance is not adequate to cover the amounts, or our insurers deny coverage, the amounts to be paid by the Company could have a significant negative impact on our financial results, our cash flow and our cash reserves. We are among the defendants in a putative derivative action lawsuit. We cannot predict the timing or the outcome of this action, or whether we have adequate insurance to cover our costs and any damages. Company shareholders filed actions in the Suffolk County Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, putatively derivatively on behalf of the Company against the Company, each of the Company’s Directors, Messrs. Lam and Weber, and the estate of Mr. Huai (the “Derivative Action”). The consolidated amended Derivative Action complaint alleges that the defendants breached their duties to the Company by: (1) causing or allowing the dissemination of false and misleading information; (2) failing to maintain internal controls; (3) failing to manage the Company properly; (4) unjustly enriching themselves; (5) abusing their control of the Company; and (6) wasting Company assets. We intend to file a motion to dismiss the Derivative Action. Certain of the defendants may be entitled to indemnification by the Company under the laws of Delaware and/or our by-laws. We cannot predict when the Derivative Action will be resolved or its outcome. While we have insurance policies that we believe cover us for the allegations of the Derivative Action, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to cover the costs of our defense of the Derivative Action or any damages that might be awarded against us or any defendant(s) to whom we owe indemnification. Our insurers may deny coverage under the policies. If the plaintiffs are awarded damages and our insurance is not adequate to cover the amounts, or our insurers deny coverage, the amounts to be paid by the Company could have a significant negative impact on our financial results, our cash flow and our cash reserves. Our announcement of improper payments, and the existence of the governmental investigations and the stockholder suits, could damage our reputation and harm our ability to compete for customers. The market for network storage solutions is highly competitive. Our announcement of improper payments, and the existence of the governmental investigations and the stockholder suits could damage our reputation and harm our ability to compete for customers. We are aware that some of our competitors are already using these facts in attempts to dissuade potential customers from doing business with us. If potential customers choose not to buy our products or services, or not to license our software, it will have a negative impact on our business. We have had significant turnover in our senior management. Since September 29, 2010, we have accepted the resignations of our: CEO; CFO; CTO; VP of Sales for North America; VP of Sales and General Manager for Europe, the Middle East and Africa; General Manager of Asia-Pacific; and VP of Global Support. We have filled these positions with highly qualified individuals with extensive storage and software company experience. However, there can be no guarantee that the new senior management will be able to get up to speed and successfully manage the Company. In addition, with the exception of James P. McNiel, we have no employment agreements with any of our senior management and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of the members of the senior management team. Our revenues from certain key customers have been declining and there is no guarantee that we will be able to replace it. From 2005 to 2010, revenue from EMC accounted for 10% or more of our annual revenue. For 2011, revenue from EMC was less than 10% of our annual revenues and we do not expect that revenue from EMC will be 10% or more of our total revenue at any point in the future. 15 Table of Contents We are attempting to replace the revenue we formerly received from EMC with revenue from other partners and from our FalconStor-branded solutions, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in these attempts. Our increased emphasis on sales of turn-key appliances may not be successful and exposes us to supply, inventory and support risks. We have begun to emphasize sales of turn-key appliances. These appliances consist of our branded software loaded onto industry standard hardware. The hardware, while purchased from third parties, is FalconStor branded. There can be no guarantee that we will be more successful selling these appliances than we have been selling software-only solutions. In addition, the increased emphasis on appliances creates the following additional risks: · Supply. We are dependent on third parties for the supply of the hardware. If we cannot obtain adequate supplies of the hardware, we could lose sales and revenues. If our hardware suppliers discontinue certain models, our sales could be disrupted while we find and certify replacement models. If customer orders exceed our expectations, we may not be able to deliver all of the appliances to meet those orders in a particular quarter. · Inventory. In order to mitigate supply issues, we maintain an inventory of appliances. We spend money on this inventory in advance of customer orders. This is money that could have been used for other purposes or that could have been invested. If the inventory is inadequate, we may lose sales or not be able to fulfill orders in a particular quarter. If the inventory is excessive, we could end up with obsolete hardware for which we have paid and for which we are unable to find buyers, leaving us with a loss. · Support. While our suppliers are responsible for providing us with support for their hardware, our customers look to us for support of the entire appliance. We are responsible for coordinating all support for the appliance, whether the problem relates to the software or to the hardware. This increases the burden on our support group and may require us to hire additional support personnel. Our margins have been and will continue to be impacted by our emphasis on FalconStor branded appliances and the decrease in our OEM sales. The shift in emphasis from sales of software licenses to sales of turn-key appliances has hurt our profit margins. Once software is developed, the cost of licensing each individual copy of the software is lower than the cost of selling an appliance. In addition to the costs associated with licensing software, with sales of turn-key appliances we incur the cost of the hardware itself. Margins on hardware sales are typically quite small, so the overall margin on the sale of an appliance is lower than the sale of a license to stand-alone software. Software license sales to OEMs typically have the highest margins, because no salespeople are compensated, support costs are typically lower, and marketing expenses are minimal. Sales of FalconStor-branded appliances and software require us to compensate salespeople, to provide customer support and to market the products, all of which reduce our profit margins. We had losses for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 and we cannot guarantee that we will return to profitability. We have operated at a loss for each of the past three years. We are, and have been, attempting to increase revenues and to decrease costs, but there can be no guarantee that we will be profitable again. If our losses continue, we will deplete our available cash and we may not be able to continue to fund effective sales and marketing or the research and development activities on which we are dependent. Due to the uncertain and shifting development of the data protection and network storage software markets and our reliance on our partners, we may have difficulty accurately predicting revenue for future periods and appropriately budgeting for expenses. The rapidly evolving nature of the data protection and network storage software markets in which we sell our products, the degrees of effort and success of our partners’ sales and marketing efforts, and other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately forecast our quarterly and annual revenue. However, we must use our forecasted revenue to establish our expense budget. Most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue. As a result, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenue. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and manufacture new products that achieve acceptance in the data protection and the network storage software markets, our operating results may suffer. The data protection and the network storage software markets continue to evolve and as a result there is continuing demand for new products. Accordingly, we may need to develop and manufacture new products that address additional data protection or network storage software market segments and emerging technologies to remain competitive in the data storage software industry. We are uncertain whether we will successfully qualify new data protection or network storage software products with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications. Any failure to address additional market segments could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our next generation products have been delayed, and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to release them in a timely manner. We had intended to release our next generation products, codenamed “Bluestone,” in 2011. However, our development efforts have been delayed. We have reviewed our roadmap and we now intend to release our next generation products in stages over the next two years. It is possible that the development schedule could be delayed again or that we will not be able to develop certain features. Because our customers expect continuous improvements and innovations, any additional delays in the release of new products could have a material negative impact on our results. Our products must conform to industry standards in order to be accepted by customers in our markets. Our current products are only one part of a storage system. All components of these systems must comply with the same industry standards in order to operate together efficiently. We depend on companies that provide other components of these systems to conform to industry standards. Some industry standards may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by OEM customers or end users. If other providers of components do not support the same industry standards as we do, or if competing standards emerge, our products may not achieve market acceptance, which would adversely affect our business. Our products may have errors or defects that could result in reduced demand for our products or costly litigation. Our solutions are complex and are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks. Many of our customers have unique infrastructures, which may require additional professional services in order for our software to work within their infrastructures. Because our products are critical to the networks of our customers, any significant interruption in their service as a result of defects in our product could result in damage to our customers. These problems could cause us to incur significant service and engineering costs, divert engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly impair our ability to maintain existing customer relationships and attract new customers. In addition, a product liability claim, whether successful or not, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Further, if we are unable to fix the errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, we would likely experience loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share and our business and prospects would suffer. Our other products may also contain errors or defects. If we are unable to fix the errors or other problems that may be discovered, we would likely experience loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share and our business and prospects would suffer. Failure of storage appliances to integrate smoothly with end user systems could impact demand for the appliances. We offer our software on a stand-alone basis and as part of an appliance in which we install our software onto third party hardware. In addition, we have entered into agreements with resellers and OEM partners to develop storage appliances that combine VTL, CDP, NSS or FDS functionality with third party hardware to create single purpose turnkey solutions that are designed to be easy to deploy. If the storage appliances are not easy to deploy or do not integrate smoothly with end user systems, the basic premise behind the appliances will not be met and sales would suffer. 17 Table of Contents Issues with the hardware on which our software products are installed could increase our support costs and result in lower sales of our products. We deliver some of our products, both through our resellers and directly to end-users, installed on third party hardware. If the hardware does not function properly, our support costs will go up. We will have to arrange or pay for the repair or replacement of the broken hardware and we may have to increase the size of our support operations. Hardware reliability issues could also cause resellers and end-users to refuse to make purchases from us, even if our software products function properly. Our OEM customers require our products to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process that does not assure product sales. Prior to offering our products for sale, our OEM customers typically require that each of our products undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves interoperability testing of our product in the OEM’s system as well as rigorous reliability testing. This qualification of a product by an OEM does not assure any sales of the product to the OEM. Despite this uncertainty, we devote substantial resources, including engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, toward qualifying our products with OEMs in anticipation of sales to them. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any products with an OEM, such failure or delay would preclude or delay sales of that product to the OEM, which may impede our ability to grow our business. We rely on our resellers and our OEM customers for most of our sales. The vast majority of our sales come from sales to end users of our products by our resellers and by our OEM customers. These resellers and OEM customers have limited resources and sales forces and sell many different products, both in the data protection and the network storage software markets and in other markets. The resellers and OEM customers may choose to focus their sales efforts on other products in the data protection and the network storage software markets or other markets. The OEM customers might also choose not to continue to develop or to market products which include our products. This would likely result in lower revenues to us and would impede our ability to grow our business. Our OEM customers are not obligated to continue to sell our products. We have no control over the shipping dates or volumes of systems incorporation of our product that our OEM customers ship and they have no obligation to ship systems incorporating our software applications. Our OEM customers also have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements. These OEMs also could choose to develop their own data protection and network storage software internally, or to license software from our competitors, and incorporate those products into their systems instead of our software applications. The OEMs that we do business with also compete with one another. If one of our OEMs views our arrangement with another OEM as competing with its products, it may decide to stop doing business with us. Any material decrease in the volume of sales generated by OEMs with whom we do business, as a result of these factors or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in future periods. The failure of our resellers to sell our products effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely significantly on our value-added resellers, direct market resellers, systems integrators and corporate resellers, which we collectively refer to as resellers, for the marketing and distribution of our software products and our services. However, our agreements with resellers are generally not exclusive, are generally renewable annually and in many cases may be terminated by either party without cause. Many of our resellers carry products that are competitive with ours. These resellers may give a higher priority to other products, including those of our competitors, or may not continue to carry our products at all. If a number of resellers were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products, or were to promote our competitors’ products in lieu of ours, it would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Events or occurrences of this nature could seriously harm our sales and results of operations. In addition, we expect that a significant portion of our sales growth will depend upon our ability to identify and attract new reseller partners. The use of resellers is an integral part of our distribution network. We believe that our competitors also use reseller arrangements. Our competitors may be more successful in attracting reseller partners and could enter into exclusive relationships with resellers that make it difficult to expand our reseller network. Any failure on our part to expand our network of resellers could impair our ability to grow revenues in the future. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our receivables is concentrated with one customer. As of December 31, 2011, Hitachi Data Systems accounts receivable balance was 11% of our gross accounts receivable balance. We currently have no reason to expect that Hitachi Data Systems will fail to pay the amounts invoiced, nor do we have any history of non-payment with Hitachi Data Systems, but the concentration of this receivable means that any failure by Hitachi Data Systems to pay us all or a significant portion of this receivable would have a material impact on us. We must maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with strategic industry partners. Part of our strategy is to partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors who integrate our products into their offerings and/or market our products to others. These strategic partners often have customer or distribution networks to which we otherwise would not have access or the development of which would take up large amounts of our time and other resources. There is intense competition to establish relationships with these strategic partners. In addition, the desire for product differentiation could cause potential OEM partners to select software from our competitors. We cannot guarantee that our current strategic partners, or those companies with whom we may partner in the future, will continue to be our partners for any period of time. If our software was to be replaced in an OEM solution by competing software, or if our software is not selected by OEMs for future solutions, it would likely result in lower revenues to us and would impede our ability to grow our business. We rely on channel partners to sell our solutions, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage our channel partners would harm our business. Our future success is partially dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with the right channel partners. A majority of our revenue is generated by sales through our channel partners, and we expect channel sales to continue to make up the majority of our total revenue in the future. Accordingly, our revenues are largely dependent on the effective sales and lead generation activities of these channel partners. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. Those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage as we grow our organization. We have no minimum purchase commitments from any of our channel partners, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may provide incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our solutions exclusively or at all. Establishing relationships with channel partners who have a history of selling our competitors’ products may also prove to be difficult. In addition, some of our channel partners are also competitors. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners would harm our business and operating results. The data protection and network storage software markets are highly competitive and intense competition could negatively impact our business. The data protection and network storage software markets are intensely competitive even during periods when demand is stable. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, broader name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than we have. Those competitors and other potential competitors may be able to establish or to expand network storage software offerings more quickly, adapt to new technologies and customer requirements faster, and take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily. 19 Table of Contents Our competitors also may: · consolidate or establish strategic relationships among themselves to lower their product costs or to otherwise compete more effectively against us; or · bundle their products with other products to increase demand for their products. In addition, some OEMs with whom we do business, or hope to do business, may enter the market directly and rapidly capture market share. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse affect on our sales of our products and results of operations. Our services include the assessment and design of solutions to meet our customers’ data protection and storage management requirements and the efficient installation and deployment of our products based on specified business objectives. Further, once our products are deployed, our customers depend on us to resolve issues relating to our products. A high level of service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If our partners or we do not effectively install or deploy our applications, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, it would adversely affect our ability to sell software products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse effect on our sales of our products and results of operations. Failure to achieve anticipated growth could harm our business and operating results. Achieving our anticipated growth will depend on a number of factors, some of which include: · retention of key management, marketing and technical personnel; · our ability to increase our customer base and to increase the sales of our products; and · competitive conditions in the network storage infrastructure software market. We cannot assure you that the anticipated growth will be achieved. The failure to achieve anticipated growth could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues depend in part on spending by corporate customers. The operating results of our business depend in part on the overall demand for data protection and network storage software. Because the market for our software is primarily major corporate customers, any softness in demand for data protection or network storage software may result in decreased revenues. Our future quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our previous results are not necessarily indicative of our future performance and our future quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. Our future performance will depend on many factors, including: · developments arising from the investigations by the United States Attorney’s Office and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the two purported class action law suits and the derivative action lawsuit; · fluctuations in the economy; · the timing of securing software license contracts and the delivery of software and related revenue recognition; 20 Table of Contents · the seasonality of information technology, including network storage products, spending; · the average unit selling price of our products; · existing or new competitors introducing better products at competitive prices before we do; · our ability to manage successfully the complex and difficult process of qualifying our products with our customers; · new products or enhancements from us or our competitors; · our ability to release new and innovative products; · import or export restrictions on our proprietary technology; and · personnel changes. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed and difficult to reduce or modify. As a result, the fixed nature of our expenses will magnify any adverse effect of a decrease in revenue on our operating results. Our stock price may be volatile. ` The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. For example, during the past twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the closing market price of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market fluctuated between $2.49 and $4.91 per share, and subsequent to December 31, 2011, the closing price has been as low as $2.42 per share. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by the following factors: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · failure to meet financial estimates; · changes in market valuations of other technology companies, particularly those in the network storage software market; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of one or more key OEM customers; and · departures of key personnel. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Our ability to forecast earnings is limited by the impact of certain accounting requirements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board requires companies to recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the statement of operations. However, this expense, which we estimate based on the “Black-Scholes” model, is subject to factors beyond our control. These factors include the market price of our stock on a particular day and stock price “volatility.” These unknowns make it difficult for us to forecast accurately what the amount of share-based compensation expense will be in the future. Because of these factors, our ability to make accurate forecasts of future earnings is compromised. 21 Table of Contents Our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2011, we held short-term and long-term marketable securities aggregating $21.5 million. We invest in a mixture of corporate bonds, government securities and marketable debt securities, the majority of which are high investment grade, and we limit the amount of credit exposure through diversification and investment in highly rated securities. However, investing in highly rated securities does not entirely mitigate the risk of potential declines in market value. A further deterioration in the economy, including further tightening of credit markets or significant volatility in interest rates, could cause our marketable securities to decline in value or could impact the liquidity of the portfolio. If market conditions deteriorate significantly, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The ability to predict our future effective tax rates could impact our ability to accurately forecast future earnings. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and the various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and there are many transactions and calculations where the tax determination may be uncertain. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in our (i) earnings or losses; (ii) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; (iii) changes in tax laws; and (iv) other factors. Our ability to correctly predict our future effective tax rates based upon these possible changes could significantly impact our forecasted earnings. The likelihood of a change of control in our company could be impacted by the fact that we have a significant amount of authorized but unissued preferred stock, a staggered Board of Directors, change of control agreements with certain executives as well as certain provisions under Delaware law. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations, including, without limitation restricting dividends on our common stock, dilution of the voting power of our common stock and impairing the liquidation rights of the holders of our common stock, as the Board may determine without any vote of the stockholders. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. In addition, certain “anti-takeover” provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, among other things, may restrict the ability of our stockholders to authorize a merger, business combination or change of control. Further, we have a staggered Board of Directors and have entered into change of control agreements with certain executives, which may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. We have a significant number of outstanding options, the exercise of which would dilute the then-existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our common stock, and a smaller number of restricted shares of stock, the vesting of which will also dilute the then-existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had options to purchase 14,456,722 shares of our common stock outstanding, and we had an aggregate of 525,889 outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units. If all of these outstanding options were exercised, and all of the outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock units vested, the proceeds to the Company would average $4.78 per share. We also had 1,747,161 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock plans with respect to options (or restricted stock or restricted stock units) that have not been granted. In addition, if, on July 1st of any calendar year in which our 2006 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended (the “2006 Plan”), is in effect, the number of shares of stock to which options, restricted shares and restricted stock units may be granted is less than five percent (5%) of the number of outstanding shares of stock, then the number of shares of stock available for issuance under the 2006 Plan shall be increased so that the number equals five percent (5%) of the shares of stock outstanding. In no event shall the number of shares of stock subject to the 2006 Plan in the aggregate exceed twenty million shares, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2006 Plan. See Note (8) Share-Based Payment Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. The exercise of all of the outstanding options and/or the vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units and/or the grant and exercise of additional options and/or the grant and vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units would dilute the then-existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock. Moreover, the terms upon which we would be able to obtain additional equity capital could be adversely affected because the holders of such securities can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable than those provided by such securities. 22 Table of Contents Our business could be materially affected as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist acts, or other catastrophic events. While our headquarters facilities contain redundant power supplies and generators, our domestic and foreign operations, and the operations of our industry partners, remain susceptible to fire, floods, power loss, power shortages, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Terrorist actions domestically or abroad could lead to business disruptions or to cancellations of customer orders or a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or could have direct impact on our marketing, administrative or financial functions and our financial condition could suffer. In 2011, our supply of hardware components was impacted by floods in Thailand. We continually look for alternatives to help mitigate any supply chain disruptions due to natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. However, our failure to mitigate these supply chain disruptions could impact our ability to procure and deliver products to our customers, which could adversely impact our overall financial condition. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions including order processing, shipping, shipment tracking, billing, support center and internal information exchange. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, shipping products, billing customers, handling support calls, or communication among our offices. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our customers. Our support centers are dependent upon telephone and data services provided by third party telecommunications service vendors and our IT and telecommunications system. Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. United States Government export restrictions could impede our ability to sell our software to certain end users. Certain of our products include the ability for the end user to encrypt data. The United States, through the Bureau of Industry Security, places restrictions on the export of certain encryption technology. These restrictions may include: the requirement to have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed; and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. Certain of our products are subject to various levels of export restrictions. These export restrictions could negatively impact our business. The international nature of our business could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We sell our products worldwide. Accordingly, our operating results could be materially adversely affected by various factors including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, decreased flexibility in matching workforce needs as compared with the U.S., and potentially adverse tax consequences. Such factors could materially adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, our operating results. 23 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations may impact our revenues. Our licenses and services in Japan are sold in Yen. Our licenses and services in the Republic of Korea are sold in Won. Many of the sales of our licenses and services in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, are made in European Monetary Units (“Euros”). Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings. Significant changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues, expenses and cash flows of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have not, in the past, resulted in a material impact on earnings. However, we may experience at times in the future an impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Since 2009, we have utilized a program to hedge some of our foreign currency risks from time to time. The hedging program will not remove all downside risk and limits the gains we might otherwise receive from currency fluctuations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into future currency hedges on terms acceptable to us (see Note (11) Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements). Because we conduct operations in China, risks associated with economic, political and social events in China could negatively affect our business and operating results. China is becoming a significant market for our products and we are increasing our operations in China. In addition to a joint venture with the Chinese Academy of Science, we have OEM agreements with several Chinese companies. We also have research and development and sales offices in China employing a total of 50 people as of December 31, 2011. Our operations in China are subject to a number of risks relating to China’s economic and political systems, including: • government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese Renminbi; • extensive government regulation; • changing governmental policies relating to tax benefits available to foreign-owned businesses; • the telecommunications infrastructure; • relatively uncertain legal system; and • uncertainties related to continued economic and social reform. Any significant interruption in our China operations, whether resulting from any of the above uncertainties, natural disasters or otherwise, could result in delays or disruptions in our revenue and our research development operations, either of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business will suffer. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We have eighteen patents issued, and we have multiple pending patent applications, numerous trademarks registered and multiple pending trademark applications related to our products. We cannot predict whether we will receive patents for our pending or future patent applications, and any patents that we own or that are issued to us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we sell and manufacture our products, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We also rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, as well as the confidentiality and other restrictions contained in our respective sales contracts and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation, which could seriously harm our business. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We were already subject to one action, which alleged that our technology infringed on patents held by a third party. While we settled this litigation, the fees and expenses of the litigation as well as the litigation settlement were expensive and the litigation diverted management’s time and attention. Any additional litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management's time and attention and might subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our intellectual property rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us could force us to take specific actions, including: · cease selling our products that use the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology or trademark, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products that use infringing intellectual property or cease to use an infringing product or trademark. Developments limiting the availability of Open Source software could impact our ability to deliver products and could subject us to costly litigation. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including “Open Source” software. At least one intellectual property rights holder has alleged that it holds the rights to software traditionally viewed as Open Source. In addition, United States courts have not interpreted the terms of many open source licenses, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our appliances. We could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our software, to re-engineer our software, to discontinue the sale of our software in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or to litigate any disputes relating to our use of open source software, any of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the network storage software industry is extremely intense. If we are unable to retain existing employees or to hire and integrate new employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. In addition, companies whose employees accept positions with competitors often claim that the competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may be the subject of such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel and could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against those claims. 25 Table of Contents We may not successfully integrate the products, technologies or businesses from, or realize the intended benefits of acquisitions. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of other companies or their assets. Integration of the acquired products, technologies and businesses, could divert management’s time and resources. Further, we may not be able to properly integrate the acquired products, technologies or businesses, with our existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired businesses, or combine potentially different corporate cultures. If we are unable to fully integrate the acquired products, technologies or businesses, or train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired businesses, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If actual results or events differ materially from our estimates and assumptions, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosure in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to establish policies that contain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and estimates essential to preparing our financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual future results may differ materially from these estimates. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, our estimates and assumptions. Long Term Character of Investments Our present and future equity investments may never appreciate in value, and are subject to normal risks associated with equity investments in businesses. These investments may involve technology risks as well as commercialization risks and market risks. As a result, we may be required to write down some or all of these investments in the future. Unknown Factors Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or which currently we deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 