Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company (see the forward-looking statements disclaimer at the beginning of Part 1, Item 1 in this Report). In addition, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that the Company now views as minor could become more significant. If the Company were unable to adequately respond to any risks, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that nay actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective. 10 The general economic conditions and the global financial crisis may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and their impact on levels of capital investment, which have recently deteriorated significantly over the past two fiscal years and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company’s products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, unemployment and other macroeconomic factors affecting commercial and industrial spending behavior. The past distress in the financial markets and global economy has resulted in reduced liquidity and a tightening of credit markets. As a result of these conditions, the Company could experience several potential adverse effects, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products, the insolvency of customers resulting in reduced sales and bad debts, and the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product development and production delays. The Company’s primary markets are volatile and unpredictable The Company’s business depends on the demand for our various products in a variety of commercial and industrial markets. In the past, demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers as well as the relative mix of those orders and variations in the volume of orders for a particular product line in a particular quarter. The Xact tank monitoring system may not become commercially viable and satisfy expected demand On May 13, 2009, the Company announced the introduction of the Xact tank monitoring system for measuring fill levels of industrial liquefied propane tanks and communicating that data via satellite to a secure web site. Although the initial acquisition and further development of the Xact product has negatively impacted current operating results, the product should allow the Company to enter new measurement markets and is expected to add sales and profits to the Company in future years. However, the Xact product may not be successful, anticipated market demand for the product may not materialize and additional product or market opportunities may not be identified and developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, each of which could continue to negatively impact future operating results and result in large and immediate write-offs of recorded intangible asset balances. New products may not be developed to satisfy changes in consumer demands The failure to develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay development of new products, which could result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to competitors. Financial performance depends on the ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. New product opportunities may not be identified and developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or a fundamental shift in technologies in the product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position within historic industries. Failure to protect intellectual property rights could adversely affect future performance and growth Failure to protect existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or paying other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. The Company relies on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. There is no assurance any of the Company’s U.S. patents will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies. 11 Competition is intense and the Company’s failure to compete effectively would adversely affect its business Competition in the markets for the Company’s products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for the Company’s various technologies, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to those new markets are important competitive factors. The principal competitive factors in the Company’s markets are product features, performance, reliability and price. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to compete effectively in the future, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Production time and the overall cost of products could increase if any of the primary suppliers are lost or if a primary supplier increased the prices of raw materials Manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. The results of operations could be adversely affected if adequate supplies of raw materials cannot be obtained in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict future performance Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond management’s control. As a result of quarterly operating fluctuations, it is important to realize quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. The Company may not be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough if sales decline Operating expenses are generally fixed in nature and largely based on anticipated sales. However, should future sales decline significantly and rapidly, there is no guarantee management could take actions that would further reduce operating expenses in either a timely manner or without seriously impacting the operations of the Company. The Company maintains a significant investment in inventories in anticipation of future sales The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage by shipping product to its customers more rapidly than its competitors. As a result, the Company has a significant investment in inventories. These inventories are recorded using the lower-of-cost or market method, which requires management to make certain estimates. Management evaluates the recorded inventory values based on customer demand, market trends and expected future sales and changes these estimates accordingly. A significant shortfall of sales may result in carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods and raw materials thereby increasing the risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs. As a result, the Company may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write-downs. Future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key management and qualified technical and sales personnel Future success depends on the efforts and continued services of key management, technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and there is no assurance key technical and sales personnel can be retained or that other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as required can be attracted, assimilated and retained. There is also no guarantee that key employees will not leave and subsequently compete against the Company. The inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations The Company’s future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from future 12 potential tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretations of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and could continue to increase Company expenses Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and could continue to increase Company expenses as the Company devotes resources to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. In particular, the Company could incur significant additional administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time in Fiscal 2011 to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires management to report on, and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm to ultimately attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. The Company may also incur additional fees necessary for them to provide their attestation. In addition, the NASDAQ Capital Market, on which the Company’s common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The Company may be required to hire additional personnel and use outside legal, accounting and advisory services to address these laws, rules and regulations. The Company also expects these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and the Company may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, Company board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect the Company. The Company faces risks from international sales and currency fluctuations The Company markets and sells its products worldwide and international sales have accounted for and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of future revenue. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: the imposition of governmental controls; trade restrictions; difficulty in collecting receivables; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; political and economic instability; general economic conditions; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. No assurances can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on future international sales and operations and, consequently, on business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 