Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company (see the forward-looking statements disclaimer at the beginning of Part 1, Item 1 in this Report). In addition, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that the Company now views as minor could become more significant. If the Company were unable to adequately respond to any risks, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that any actions taken to reduce known or unknown risks and uncertainties will be effective. General economic conditions and uncertainties may adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the industrial, manufacturing and automotive sectors in the U.S., Asia and Europe, and their impact on levels of capital spending, which have deteriorated significantly in the past and may become depressed, or be subject to further deterioration. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company’s products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, reduction in demand for our customers’ products, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit and the stability of the global financial system, the overall health of our markets, unemployment and other macroeconomic factors generally affecting commercial and industrial spending behavior. The past distress in the global financial markets and global economy has resulted in reduced liquidity and a tightening of credit markets. As a result of these conditions, the Company could experience several potential adverse effects, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products, the insolvency of customers resulting in reduced sales and bad debts, and the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product development and production delays. The Company’s primary markets are volatile and unpredictable The Company’s business depends on the demand for our various products in a variety of commercial and industrial markets. In the past, demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers as well as the relative mix of those orders and variations in the volume of orders for a particular product line in a particular quarter. Page 12 The Company’s efforts to continue to accelerate growth of the Xact Tank Monitoring System may not be successful The Xact Tank Monitoring System, which was introduced by the Company in 2009, measures the fill levels of tanks holding propane, diesel and other tank-based liquids and communicates that data via satellite to a secure web site. Although the initial acquisition and further development of the Xact product line have negatively impacted operating results, the product line is adding sales and profits to the Company. The Company’s efforts to continue to accelerate the growth of Xact in its two primary markets of North America and Latin America may not be successful, anticipated market demand for the products may not materialize, and additional products or market opportunities may not be identified, developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. All of this could continue to negatively impact future operating results and result in large and immediate write-offs of recorded intangible asset balances. New products may not be developed to satisfy changes in consumer demands The failure to develop new products or enhance existing products or react to changes in existing technologies could result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to competitors. Financial performance depends on the ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. New product opportunities may not be identified and developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or a fundamental shift in technologies in the product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position within historic industries. Competition is intense and the Company’s failure to compete effectively would adversely affect its business Competition in the markets for the Company’s products is intense. The speed with which the Company can identify new applications for the Company’s various technologies, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to those new markets are important competitive factors. The principal competitive factors in the Company’s markets are product features, performance, reliability and price. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, technical, engineering, production and marketing resources than we do. Those competitors with greater resources may, in addition to other things, be able to better withstand periodic downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, or more quickly develop enhancements to products that compete with the products we manufacture and market. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in those markets. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to compete effectively in the future, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may experience increased pricing pressure We have experienced and continue to experience pricing pressure in the sale of our products, from both competitors and customers. Pricing pressures typically have become more intense during cyclical downturns when competitors seek to maintain or increase market share, reduce inventory or introduce more technologically advanced products or lower cost products. In addition, we may agree to pricing concessions or extended payment terms with our customers in connection with volume orders or to reduce cost of ownership in highly competitive applications. Our business, financial condition, margins or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by competitive pressure and intense price-based competition. The Company may experience uncertainties resulting from conflict minerals regulation On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by companies filing public reports. The new rule requires a disclosure report to be filed annually with the SEC and this report will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect Page 13 sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Production time and the overall cost of products could increase if any of the primary suppliers are lost or if a primary supplier increased the prices of raw materials Manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. The results of operations could be adversely affected if adequate supplies of raw materials cannot be obtained in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. The Company may not be able to ramp up manufacturing to satisfy increasing orders, which may lead to the loss of significant revenue opportunities The Company manufactures several different product lines, all of which involve complicated technology and individual attention for each product made. The production time for each product can vary, depending on a variety of circumstances, including component availability, timing of delivery of components from suppliers and employee availability. Should the Company receive a large increase in orders, an increase in the size of orders or a shortening of the required delivery time on existing orders, the Company may not be able to ramp up manufacturing to satisfy customer expectations, which may lead to the loss of significant revenue opportunities. The Company maintains a significant investment in inventories in anticipation of future sales The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage by shipping product to its customers more rapidly than its competitors. As a result, the Company has a significant investment in inventories. These inventories are recorded using the lower of cost or market method, which requires management to make certain estimates. Management evaluates the recorded inventory values based on customer demand, market trends and expected future sales, and changes these estimates accordingly. A significant shortfall of sales may result in carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods and raw materials thereby increasing the risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs. As a result, the Company may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write-downs. The Company’s existing cash may not be sufficient and the Company may not be able to obtain financing to fund operations or future growth The Company had a cash balance of $1.8 million as of May 31, 2015 and has no bank line of credit facility. The Company believes that its existing cash and investments combined with the cash from operating activities will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the near term. However, if sales weaken or the Company needs to fund growth, and the Company is unable to reduce its operating costs in a timely manner or access additional financing through commercial loans or capital fund raising at terms acceptable to the Company and its shareholders, the liquidity or operations of the Company may be significantly impacted. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict future performance Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond management’s control. As a result of quarterly operating fluctuations, it is important to realize Page 14 quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. The Company faces risks from international sales and currency fluctuations The Company markets and sells its products worldwide and international sales have accounted for and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of future revenue. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: the imposition of governmental controls; trade restrictions; difficulty in collecting receivables; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; political and economic instability; general economic conditions; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. No assurances can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may experience a downturn due to the risks of operating a global business Sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for 45.1% of total sales in Fiscal 2015. We expect that sales to customers outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant percentage of sales in the future. We currently have a sales and service office in Coventry, England and a sales office in Shanghai, China. We may need to increase our foreign operations in the future. Our international sales, purchases and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside of our control, including periodic local or geographical economic downturns, fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, difficulties in protecting intellectual property, shipping delays and disruptions, local labor disputes, unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and duties and difficulties in managing a global presence, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable, and managing distributors and sales representatives. The Company may not be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough if sales decline Operating expenses are generally fixed in nature and largely based on anticipated sales. However, should future sales decline significantly and rapidly, there is no guarantee management could take actions that would further reduce operating expenses in either a timely manner or without seriously impacting the operations of the Company. Future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key management and qualified technical and sales personnel Future success depends on the efforts and continued services of key management, technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and there is no assurance key technical and sales personnel can be retained or that other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as required can be attracted, assimilated and retained. There is also no guarantee that key employees will not leave and subsequently compete against the Company. The inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations The Company’s future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from future, potential tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretations of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Page 15 Failure to protect intellectual property rights could adversely affect future performance and growth Failure to protect existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or paying other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. The Company relies on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. There is no assurance any of the Company’s U.S. patents will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and could continue to increase Company expenses Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and may continue to increase Company expenses as the Company devotes resources to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the NASDAQ Capital Market, on which the Company’s common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The Company may be required to hire additional personnel and use outside legal, accounting and advisory services to address these laws, rules and regulations. The Company also expects these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and the Company may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, the Company’s board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 