Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company (see the forward-looking statements disclaimer at the beginning of Part 1, Item 1 in this Report). In addition, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that the Company faces. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that the Company now views as minor could become more significant. If the Company were unable to adequately respond to any risks, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that nay actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective. Demand for Company products may change During Fiscal 2008, the Company experienced increased demand for its Balancer products in North America, its largest market, attributed primarily to an improving economy in North America. However, during Fiscal 2007 Balancer sales in North America declined 8.3% when compared to Fiscal 2006. The conditions and circumstances could change in future periods, and as a result demand for the Company’s products could decline. Management is responding to these risks in two ways. First, it appears there is still a significant portion of the marketplace that is not using the automatic balancing products of the Company or any of its competitors. The Company will therefore continue to devote part of its future R&D efforts toward developing products that will both broaden the scope of Balancing products offered to the current customer base. Second, there are uses for the Company’s Balancer products in industries other than those in the Company’s historic customer base. Management is devoting time to identify these markets and educate those markets on the value of those products within their operations. The laser light-scatter products of the Measurement segment have relied heavily upon sales to disk drive and silicon wafer manufacturers. Sales during Fiscal 2008 and 2007 have decreased 50.4% and 13.6%, respectively. Previous information had indicated continued improving demand for and sales of disk drive products. Recently, however, certain disk drive manufacturers have scaled back their outlook for the current calendar year, blaming a price war over high-capacity desktop computer drives, which now store as much as about one trillion bytes of data. With respect to handheld applications, disk drive manufacturers believe disk drive products with smaller than 1.8 inch form factors have to a large extent been replaced by competing storage technologies, such as solid state or flash memory. The long-term impact on demand for the Company’s surface Measurement products cannot be predicted with any certainty. Management will continue to market these products to these historic markets as it appears no other technology has been introduced that would make the laser light-scatter products technologically obsolete. There is the belief that once market conditions improve in the disk drive and silicon wafer markets, demand for the Company’s products and technology will increase although most likely not to historic levels. Also, management believes there are other uses for the Company’s laser light scatter technology and continues to evaluate R&D efforts to develop new products and introduce them to the marketplace. The acquisition of Xtero Datacom Inc. technology and the introduction of the Xact™ product may not become commercially viable and satisfy expected demand On February 20, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Xtero Datacom Inc. (Xtero) and Xtero’s patented and patent pending technology for remote satellite sensing of large chemical storage tanks. Management believes the Xtero product called Xact has reached technological feasibility. Although our acquisition of Xtero with related research and development costs has negatively impacted current operating results, the transactions should allow us to enter new measurement markets and is expected to add sales and profits to the Company in future years. However, the introduction of the Xact product may not be successful, anticipated market demand for the product may not materialize and additional product or market opportunities may not be identified and 11 developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, each of which could continue to negatively impact future operating results and result in large and immediate write-offs of recorded intangible asset balances. New products may not be developed to satisfy changes in consumer demands The failure to develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay development of new products, which could result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to competitors. Financial performance depends on the ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. New product opportunities may not be identified and developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or a fundamental shift in technologies in the product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position within historic industries. Failure to protect intellectual property rights could adversely affect future performance and growth Failure to protect existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or paying other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. The Company relies on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. There is no assurance any of the Company’s U.S. patents will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies. Competition is intense and the Company’s failure to compete effectively would adversely affect its business Competition in the markets for the Company’s products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for the Company’s various technologies, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to those new markets are important competitive factors. The principal competitive factor in the Company’s markets are product features, performance, reliability and price. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to compete effectively in the future, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Production time and the overall cost of products could increase if any of the primary suppliers are lost or if a primary supplier increased the prices of raw materials Manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. The results of operations could be adversely affected if adequate supplies of raw materials cannot be obtained in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict future performance Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond management’s control. As a result of quarterly operating fluctuations, it is important to realize quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. The Company may not be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough if sales decline Operating expenses are generally fixed in nature and largely based on anticipated sales. However, should future sales decline significantly and rapidly, there is no guarantee management could take actions that would further reduce operating expenses in either a timely manner or without seriously impacting the operations of the Company. 12 The Company maintains a significant investment in inventories in anticipation of future sales The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage by shipping product to its customers more rapidly than its competitors. As a result, the Company has a significant investment in inventories. These inventories are recorded using the lower-of-cost or market method, which requires management to make certain estimates. Management evaluates the recorded inventory values based on customer demand, market trends and expected future sales and changes these estimates accordingly. A significant shortfall of sales may result in carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods and raw materials thereby increasing the risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs. As a result, the Company may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write-downs. Future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key management and qualified technical and sales personnel Future success depends on the efforts and continued services of key management, technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and there is no assurance key technical and sales personnel can be retained nor assurances there will be the ability to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as required. There is also no guarantee key employees will not leave and subsequently compete against the Company. The inability to retain key personnel could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and will continue to increase Company expenses Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and will continue to increase Company expenses as the Company devotes resources to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. In particular, the Company will incur significant additional administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time in Fiscal 2008 to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires management to report on, and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm to ultimately attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. The Company may also incur additional fees necessary for them to provide their attestation. In addition, the NASDAQ Capital Market, on which the Company’s common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The Company may be required to hire additional personnel and use outside legal, accounting and advisory services to address these laws, rules and regulations. The Company also expects these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and the Company may be required to accept reduce coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, Company board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect the Company. The Company faces risks from international sales and currency fluctuations The Company markets and sells its products worldwide and international sales have accounted for and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of future revenue. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: the imposition of governmental controls; trade restrictions; difficulty in collecting receivables; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; political and economic instability; general economic conditions; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. No assurances can be given these factors will not have a material adverse effect on future international sales and operations and, consequently, on business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 