Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those discussed in this section. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following events described in the risk factors below actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risk factors related to the Company’s business and relationships with third parties If the management fee rate paid by the Exchange is reduced, if there is a significant decrease in the amount of premiums written by the Exchange, or if the costs of providing services to the Exchange are not controlled, revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. The Company is dependent upon management fees paid by the Exchange, which represent the Company’s principal source of revenue. The management fee rate is determined by the board of directors and may not exceed 25% of the direct written premiums of the Property and Casualty Group. The board of directors sets the management fee rate each December for the following year. However, at their discretion, the rate can be changed at any time. The factors considered by the board in setting the management fee rate include the Company’s financial position in relation to the Exchange and the long-term needs of the Exchange for capital and surplus to support its continued growth and competitiveness. If the board of directors determines that the management fee rate should be reduced, the Company’s revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Management fee revenue from the Exchange is calculated by multiplying the management fee rate by the direct premiums written by the Exchange and the direct premiums written by the other members of the Property and Casualty Group, which are assumed by the Exchange under an intercompany pooling arrangement. Accordingly, any reduction in direct premiums written by the Property and Casualty Group would have a proportional negative effect on the Company’s revenues and net income. Pursuant to the attorney-in-fact agreements with the policyholders of the Exchange, the Company is appointed to perform certain services, regardless of the cost to the Company of providing those services. These services relate to the sales, underwriting and issuance of policies on behalf of the Exchange. The Company would lose money or be less profitable if the cost of providing those services increases significantly. The Company is subject to credit risk from the Exchange because the management fees from the Exchange are not paid immediately when earned. The Company’s property/casualty insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk from the Exchange because the Exchange assumes a higher insurance risk under an intercompany pooling arrangement than is proportional to its direct business contribution to the pool. The Company recognizes management fees due from the Exchange as income when the premiums are written because at that time the Company has performed substantially all of services it is required to perform, including sales, underwriting and policy issuance activities. However, such fees are not paid to the Company by the Exchange until the Exchange collects the premiums from policyholders. As a result, the Company holds receivables for management fees earned and due the Company. The Company also holds receivables from the Exchange for costs the Company pays on the Exchange’s behalf and for reinsurance under the intercompany pooling arrangement. The Company’s total receivable 9 Table of Contents from the Exchange, including the management fee, reimbursable costs the Company paid on behalf of the Exchange and total amounts recoverable from the intercompany pool, totaled $1.2 billion or 37.2% of the Company’s total assets at December 31, 2005. Two of the Company’s wholly-owned property/casualty insurance subsidiaries, Erie Insurance Company and Erie Insurance Company of New York are parties to the intercompany pooling arrangement with the Exchange. Under this pooling arrangement, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries cede 100% of their property/casualty underwriting business to the Exchange, which retrocedes 5% of the pooled business to Erie Insurance Company and .5% to Erie Insurance Company of New York. In 2005, approximately 83% of the pooled direct property/casualty business was originally generated by the Exchange and its subsidiary, while 94.5% of the pooled business is retroceded to the Exchange under the intercompany pooling arrangement. Accordingly, the Exchange assumes a higher insurance risk than is proportional to the insurance business it contributes to the pool. In 2005, the Company’s insurance subsidiaries wrote 17% of the direct premiums, while assuming only 5.5% of the risk. This poses a credit risk to the Company’s property/casualty subsidiaries participating in the pool as they retain the responsibility to their direct policyholders if the Exchange is unable to meet its reinsurance obligations. The financial condition of the Company may suffer because of declines in the value of the securities held in the Company’s investment portfolio that constitute a significant portion of the Company’s assets. The Company’s fixed income securities investments, which totaled $972 million at December 31, 2005 and comprised 31% of total assets, are exposed to price risk and to risk from changes in interest rates as well as credit risk related to the issuer. The Company does not hedge its exposure to interest rate risk as the Company has the ability to hold fixed income securities to maturity. The Company’s investment strategy achieves a balanced maturity schedule in order to moderate investment income in the event of interest rate declines in a year in which a large amount of securities could be redeemed or mature. At December 31, 2005, the Company had investments in marketable securities of approximately $266 million and investments in limited partnerships of approximately $153 million, or 8.6% and 5.0% of total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company is obligated to invest up to an additional $243 million in limited partnerships, including in partnerships for U.S. and foreign private equity, real estate and fixed income investments. All of the Company’s marketable security investments are subject to market volatility. The Company’s marketable securities have exposure to price risk and the volatility of the equity markets and general economic conditions. To the extent that future market volatility negatively impacts our investments, our financial condition will be negatively impacted. The Company reviews the investment portfolio on a continuous basis to evaluate positions that might have incurred other-than-temporary declines in value. The primary factors considered in the Company’s review of investment valuation include the extent and duration to which fair value is less than cost, historical operating performance and financial condition of the issuer, near term prospects of the issuer and its industry, specific events that occurred affecting the issuer and the Company’s ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value. If the Company’s policy for determining the recognition of impaired positions were different, the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and Statements of Operations could be significantly impacted. See also Note 3 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained in the 2005 Annual Report. 10 Table of Contents The threat of terrorism and other actions may adversely affect the Company’s investment portfolio and as a result the Company’s net income and shareholder’s equity. The threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the debt and equity markets in the United States and around the world. In addition, some of the assets in the Company’s investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. The Company cannot predict whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which the Company maintains investments may suffer losses as a result of potential decreased commercial and economic activity. The Company can offer no assurances that the threats of future terrorist-like events in the United States and abroad will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk factors relating to the business of the Property and Casualty Group The Property and Casualty Group faces significant competition from other regional and national insurance companies which may result in lower revenues. The Property and Casualty Group competes with regional and national property/casualty insurers including direct writers of insurance coverage. Many of these competitors are larger and many have greater financial, technical and operating resources. In addition, there is competition within each insurance agency that represents other carriers as well as the Property and Casualty Group. As discussed previously, the property/casualty insurance industry is highly competitive on the basis of product, price and service. If competitors offer property/casualty products with more coverage and/or better service, or offer lower premiums, the Property and Casualty Group’s ability to grow and renew its business may be adversely impacted. The internet has also emerged as a growing method of distribution, both from existing competitors using their brand to write business and from new competitors. If the Property and Casualty Group’s method of distribution does not include advancements in technology that meet consumer preferences, its ability to grow and renew its business may be adversely impacted. If the Erie Insurance Group is unable to keep pace with the rapidly developing technological advancements in the insurance industry or to replace its legacy policy administration systems, the ability of the Property & Casualty Group to compete effectively could be impaired. Technological development is necessary to reduce the cost of operating the Company and the Property & Casualty Group and to facilitate agents’ and policyholder’s ability to do business with the Property & Casualty Group. If the Erie Insurance Group is unable to keep pace with advancements being made in technology, its ability to compete with other insurance companies who have advanced technological capabilities will be negatively affected. Further, if the Erie Insurance Group is unable to update or replace its legacy policy administration systems as they become obsolete or as emerging technology renders them competitively inefficient, the Property and Casualty Group’s competitive position would be adversely affected. Premium rates and reserves must be established for members of the Property and Casualty Group from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period. The Company’s underwriting profitability could be adversely affected to the extent such premium rates or reserves are too low. One of the distinguishing features of the property and casualty insurance industry in general is that its products are priced before its costs are known, as premium rates are generally determined before losses are reported. Accordingly, premium rates must be established from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period and may not prove to be adequate. Further, property and casualty insurers establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses based upon estimates, and it is possible that the ultimate liability will exceed these estimates because of the future development of known losses, the existence of losses that have occurred but are currently unreported and larger than historical settlements on pending and unreported claims. The process of estimating reserves is inherently judgmental and can be influenced by factors that are subject to variation. 11 Table of Contents If pricing or reserves established by a member of the Property and Casualty Group are not sufficient, the Company’s underwriting profitability may be adversely impacted. The financial performance of members of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic losses, including terrorism. The Property and Casualty Group conducts business in only 11 states and the District of Columbia, primarily in the mid-Atlantic, midwestern and southeastern portions of the United States. A substantial portion of this business is private passenger and commercial automobile, homeowners and workers’ compensation insurance in Ohio, Maryland, Virginia and particularly, Pennsylvania. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, general economic trend, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition disproportionately affecting one or more of the states in which the Property and Casualty Group conducts substantial business could adversely affect the results of operations of members of the Property and Casualty Group. Common natural catastrophe events include hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, hail storms and severe winter weather. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes is inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Actual terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property/casualty insurance operations, as well as a decrease in the Company’s shareholders’ equity, net income or revenue. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2005 requires that some coverage for terrorist loss be offered by primary commercial property insurers and provides Federal assistance for recovery of claims through 2007. While the Property and Casualty Group is exposed to terrorism losses in commercial lines and workers’ compensation, these lines are afforded a limited backstop above insurer deductibles for foreign acts of terrorism under this federal program. The Property and Casualty Group has no personal lines terrorist coverage in place. The Property and Casualty Group could incur large net losses if future terrorism attacks occur. The Property and Casualty Group maintains a property catastrophe reinsurance treaty that was renewed effective January 1, 2006 that provides coverage of 95% of a loss up to $400 million in excess of the Property and Casualty Group’s loss retention of $300 million per occurrence. This treaty excludes losses from acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, catastrophe reinsurance may prove inadequate if a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit which could adversely effect the Company’s underwriting profitability. The Company is particularly exposed to an Atlantic hurricane in its homeowners lines of insurance in the states of North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania. The Property and Casualty Group depends on independent insurance agents, which exposes the Property and Casualty Group to risks not applicable to companies with dedicated agents. The Property and Casualty Group markets and sells its insurance products through independent, non-exclusive agencies. These agencies are not obligated to sell only the Property and Casualty Group’s insurance products, and generally they also sell competitor’s insurance products. As a result, the Property and Casualty Group’s business depends in part on the marketing and sales efforts of these agencies. To the extent these agencies’ marketing efforts cannot be maintained at their current levels of volume or they bind the Property and Casualty Group to unacceptable insurance risks, fail to comply with established underwriting guidelines or otherwise improperly market the Property and Casualty Group’s products, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. To the extent that business migrates to a delivery system other than independent agencies because of changing consumer preferences, the business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. Also, to the extent the agencies choose to place significant or all of their business with 12 Table of Contents competing insurance companies, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. If there were a failure to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating, the Property and Casualty Group’s competitive position in the insurance industry would be adversely affected. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s sales. Higher ratings generally indicate greater financial stability and a stronger ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors that they believe are relevant to policyholders. Currently the Property and Casualty Group’s pooled A.M. Best rating is an A+ (“superior”). A significant future downgrade in this or other ratings would reduce the competitive position of the Property and Casualty Group making it more difficult to attract profitable business in the highly competitive property/casualty insurance market. Changes in applicable insurance laws, regulations or changes in the way regulators administer those laws or regulations could adversely change the Property and Casualty Group’s operating environment and increase its exposure to loss or put it at a competitive disadvantage. Property and casualty insurers are subject to extensive supervision in the states in which they do business. This regulatory oversight includes, by way of example, matters relating to licensing and examination, rate setting, market conduct, policy forms, limitations on the nature and amount of certain investments, claims practices, mandated participation in involuntary markets and guaranty funds, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, transactions between affiliates, the amount of dividends that may be paid and restrictions on underwriting standards. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of policyholders and not for the benefit of shareholders. For instance, members of the Property and Casualty Group are subject to involuntary participation in specified markets in various states in which it operates, and the rate levels the Property and Casualty Group is permitted to charge do not always correspond with the underlying costs associated with the coverage issued. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal initiatives, such as federal terrorism backstop legislation, from time to time, also can impact the insurance industry. The ability of the Company to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key management. The company’s loss of certain key officers and employees or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and management could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. “Safe Harbor” Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain forward-looking statements contained herein involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include certain discussions relating to management fee revenue, cost of management operations, underwriting, premium and investment income volume, business strategies, profitability and business relationships and the Company’s other business activities during 2005 and beyond. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company’s current views about future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those anticipated in those statements. Many of the factors that will determine future events or achievements are beyond our ability to control or predict. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments None. 