Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those discussed in this section. The events described in the risk factors below, or any additional risk outside of those discussed below, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity if they actually occur. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report, including management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risk factors related to the Indemnity shareholder interest If the management fee rate paid by the Exchange is reduced or if there is a significant decrease in the amount of premiums written or assumed by the Exchange, revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Indemnity is dependent upon management fees paid by the Exchange, which represent its principal source of revenue. Pursuant to the subscriber’s agreements with the policyholders at the Exchange, Indemnity may retain up to 25% of all premiums written or assumed by the Exchange. Therefore, management fee revenue from the Exchange is calculated by multiplying the management fee rate by the direct premiums written by the Exchange and the other members of the Property and Casualty Group, which are assumed by the Exchange under an intercompany pooling arrangement. Accordingly, any reduction in direct premiums written by the Property and Casualty Group would have a proportional negative effect on Indemnity’s revenues and net income. See the “Risk factors relating to the non-controlling interest owned by the Exchange, which includes the Property and Casualty Group and EFL” section, herein, for a discussion of risks impacting direct written premium. The management fee rate is determined by the Board of Directors and may not exceed 25% of the premiums written or assumed by the Exchange. The Board of Directors sets the management fee rate each December for the following year. At their discretion, the rate can be changed at any time. The factors considered by the Board in setting the management fee rate include Indemnity’s financial position in relation to the Exchange and the long-term needs of the Exchange for capital and surplus to support its continued growth and competitiveness. If the Exchange’s surplus were significantly reduced, the management fee rate could be reduced and Indemnity’s revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If the costs of providing services to the Exchange are not controlled, Indemnity’s revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Pursuant to the subscriber’s agreements with the policyholders at the Exchange, Indemnity is appointed to perform certain services, regardless of the cost of providing those services. These services relate to the sales, underwriting and issuance of policies on behalf of the Exchange. Indemnity incurs significant costs related to commissions, employees, and technology in order to provide these services. Commissions to independent agents are the largest component of Indemnity’s cost of operations. Commissions include scheduled commissions to agents based on premiums written as well as additional commissions and bonuses to agents, which are earned by achieving certain targeted measures. Changes to commission rates or bonus programs may result in increased future costs and lower profitability. Employees are an essential part of the operating costs related to providing services for the Exchange. As a result, Indemnity’s profitability is affected by employee costs, including salary, medical, pension and other benefit costs. Recent regulatory developments and economic factors that are beyond our control indicate that employee healthcare costs will continue to increase. Although Indemnity actively manages these cost increases, there can be no assurance that future cost increases will not occur and reduce its profitability. Technological development is necessary to reduce Indemnity’s costs and the Property and Casualty Group’s operating costs and to facilitate agents’ and policyholders’ ability to do business with the Property and Casualty Group. If we are unable to keep pace with the advancements in technology, our ability to compete with other insurance companies who have advanced technological capabilities will be negatively affected. This could result in additional costs as we invest in new technology and systems. 8 Table of Contents Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented executives, key managers and employees is critical to our success. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key management. The loss of the services and leadership of certain key officers and the failure to attract, motivate and develop talented new executives and managers could prevent us from successfully communicating, implementing and executing business strategies, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain a talented employee base. The inability to staff all functions of our business with employees possessing the appropriate technical expertise could have an adverse effect on our business performance. Staffing appropriately skilled employees for the deployment and maintenance of information technology systems, the appropriate handling of claims, and rendering of disciplined underwriting is critical to the success of our business. If we are unable to keep pace with technological advancements in the insurance industry or are unable to ensure system availability or to secure system information, the ability of the Erie Insurance Group to compete effectively could be impaired. The Indemnity is responsible for providing the technological resources necessary to support the operations of the Erie Insurance Group. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operations of our technology and information systems. We rely on these systems to assist in key functions of core business operations including processing claims, applications, and premium payments, providing customer support, performing actuarial and financial analysis, and maintaining key data. We have an established business continuity plan to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal business operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. The failure of our information systems for any reason could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Advancements in technology continue to make it easier to store, share and transport information. A security breach of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation if confidential company or customer information were to be misappropriated from our systems. Cases where sensitive data is exposed or lost may lead to a loss in competitive advantage or lawsuits. The performance of Indemnity’s investment portfolio is subject to a variety of investment risks, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Indemnity’s investment portfolio is comprised principally of fixed-income maturities and limited partnerships. At December 31, 2010 the Indemnity’s investment portfolio consisted of approximately 50% fixed income securities, 40% limited partnerships, and 10% equity securities. All of Indemnity’s marketable securities are subject to market volatility. To the extent that future market volatility negatively impacts Indemnity’s investments, its financial condition will be negatively impacted. We review the investment portfolio on a continuous basis to evaluate positions that might have incurred other-than-temporary declines in value. The primary factors considered in our review of investment valuation include the extent and duration to which fair value is less than cost, historical operating performance and financial condition of the issuer, short- and long-term prospects of the issuer and its industry, specific events that occurred affecting the issuer including rating downgrades and, depending on the type of security, our intent to sell or our ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value. As the process for determining impairments is highly subjective, changes in our assessments may have a material effect on Indemnity’s operating results and financial condition. See also Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. If the fixed-income, equity, or limited partnership portfolios were to suffer a substantial decrease in value, Indemnity’s financial position could be materially adversely affected through increased unrealized losses or impairments. 9 Table of Contents Currently, 75% of the fixed-income portfolio is invested in municipal securities. The performance of the fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks including: • Interest rate risk — the risk of adverse changes in the value of fixed-income securities as a result of increases in market interest rates. • Investment credit risk — the risk that the value of certain investments may decrease due to the deterioration in financial condition of, or the liquidity available to, one or more issuers of those securities or, in the case of asset-backed securities, due to the deterioration of the loans or other assets that underlie the securities, which, in each case, also includes the risk of permanent loss. • Concentration risk — the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors, or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition, performance, or outlook of those issuers, sectors, or industries. • Liquidity risk — the risk that Indemnity will not be able to convert investment securities into cash on favorable terms and on a timely basis, or that Indemnity will not be able to sell them at all, when desired. Disruptions in the financial markets, or a lack of buyers for the specific securities that Indemnity is trying to sell, could prevent it from liquidating securities or cause a reduction in prices to levels that are not acceptable to Indemnity. In addition to the fixed-income securities, a significant portion of Indemnity’s portfolio is invested in limited partnerships. At December 31, 2010, the Indemnity had investments in limited partnerships of $216 million, or 16% of total assets. In addition, Indemnity is obligated to invest up to an additional $50 million in limited partnerships, including private equity, real estate and mezzanine partnership investments. Limited partnerships are significantly less liquid and generally involve higher degrees of price risk than publicly traded securities. Limited partnerships, like publicly traded securities, have exposure to market volatility; but unlike fixed-income securities, cash flows and return expectations are less predictable. The primary basis for the valuation of limited partnership interests are financial statements prepared by the general partner. Because of the timing of the preparation and delivery of these financial statements, the use of the most recently available financial statements provided by the general partners result in a quarter delay in the inclusion of the limited partnership results in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Due to this delay, Indemnity’s financial statements at December 31, 2010, do not reflect market conditions experienced in the fourth quarter of 2010. Indemnity’s equity securities have exposure to price risk, the risk of potential loss in estimated fair value resulting from an adverse change in prices. Indemnity does not hedge its exposure to equity price risk inherent in its equity investments. Equity markets, sectors, industries, and individual securities may also be subject to some of the same risks that affect Indemnity’s fixed-income portfolio, as discussed above. Indemnity is subject to credit risk from the Exchange because the management fees from the Exchange are not paid immediately when premiums are written. Indemnity recognizes management fees due from the Exchange as income when the premiums are written because at that time Indemnity has performed substantially all of the services it is required to perform, including sales, underwriting and policy issuance activities. However, such fees are not paid to Indemnity by the Exchange until the Exchange collects the premiums from policyholders. As a result, Indemnity holds receivables for management fees since such fees are based on premiums that have been written and assumed. Indemnity also holds receivables from the Exchange for costs it pays on the Exchange’s behalf. The receivable from the Exchange totaled $232 million or 18% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. Deteriorating capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect Indemnity’s ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital. Sufficient liquidity and capital levels are required to pay operating expenses, income taxes, and to provide the necessary resources to fund future growth opportunities, pay dividends, and repurchase stock. Our management estimates the appropriate level of capital necessary based on current and projected results, which include a factor for 10 Table of Contents potential exposures based on these Risk Factors. Failure to accurately estimate Indemnity’s capital needs may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition until additional sources of capital can be located. Further, a deteriorating financial condition may create a negative perception of the Indemnity by third parties, including rating agencies, investors, agents, and customers which could impact its ability to access additional capital in the debt or equity markets. The primary sources of liquidity for Indemnity are management fees and cash flows generated from its investment portfolio. In the event Indemnity’s current sources do not satisfy its needs, Indemnity has the ability to access its $100 million bank line of credit, from which there were no borrowings as of December 31, 2010, or sell assets in the investment portfolio. Volatility in the financial markets could impair Indemnity’s ability to sell certain of its fixed income securities and to a greater extent its significantly less liquid limited partnership investments, or cause such investments to sell at deep discounts. In the event these traditional sources of liquidity are not available, Indemnity may have to seek additional financing. Indemnity’s access to funds will depend on a number of factors including current market conditions, the availability of credit to the financial services industry, market liquidity, and credit ratings. In deteriorating market conditions, Indemnity may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Indemnity is subject to claims and legal proceedings, which, if determined unfavorably, could have a material adverse effect on Indemnity’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Indemnity faces a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating its businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Indemnity’s pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to Indemnity and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which it operates. In Indemnity’s management operations, we are, have been, or may become subject to class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, product design, product disclosure, policy issuance and administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products, recommending unsuitable products to customers, and breaching alleged fiduciary or other duties to customers. Indemnity is also subject to litigation arising out of its general business activities such as its contractual and employment relationships. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against Indemnity may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Indemnity is also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and authorities. Risk factors relating to the non-controlling interest owned by the Exchange, which includes the Property and Casualty Group and EFL Deteriorating general economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the non-controlling interest’s operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including declining consumer confidence, inflation, high unemployment and recession, among others, may lead the Property and Casualty Group’s customers to modify coverage, not renew policies, or even cancel policies, which could adversely affect the premium revenue of the Property and Casualty Group, and consequently Indemnity’s management fee. These conditions could also impair the ability of customers to pay premiums when due, and as a result, the Property and Casualty Group’s reserves and write-offs could increase. In addition, downward economic trends also may have an adverse effect on both Indemnity’s and the Property and Casualty Group’s investment results by negatively impacting the business conditions and impairing credit for the issuers of securities held in their respective investment portfolios. This could reduce fair values of investments and generate significant unrealized losses or impairment charges which may adversely affect their respective financial results. 11 Table of Contents The Property and Casualty Group depends on independent insurance agents, which exposes the Property and Casualty Group to risks not applicable to companies with exclusive agents or other forms of distribution. The Property and Casualty Group markets and sells its insurance products through independent, non-exclusive agencies. These agencies are not obligated to sell only the Property and Casualty Group’s insurance products, and generally they also sell competitors’ insurance products. As a result, the Property and Casualty Group’s business depends in large part on the marketing and sales efforts of these agencies. To the extent these agencies’ marketing efforts cannot be maintained at their current levels of volume or they bind the Property and Casualty Group to unacceptable insurance risks, fail to comply with established underwriting guidelines or otherwise improperly market the Property and Casualty Group’s products, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. Also, to the extent these agencies place business with competing insurers due to compensation arrangements, product differences, price differences, ease of doing business or other reasons, the results of operations of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. If the Property and Casualty Group is unsuccessful in maintaining and increasing the number of agencies in its independent agent distribution system, the results of operations of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. To the extent that consumer preferences cause the insurance industry to migrate to a delivery system other than independent agencies, the business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. Also, to the extent the agencies choose to place significant portions or all of their business with competing insurance companies, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. The Property and Casualty Group maintains a brand recognized for superior customer service. Our ability to maintain this reputation is a key factor to the Property and Casualty Group’s success. The Property and Casualty Group consistently ranks high in consumer surveys for customer service. Incidents such as failure to protect sensitive customer data, errors in processing a claim, systems failures, or unfavorable litigation, among others, may result in reputational harm to the Property and Casualty Group’s brand and the potential for reduction in business. While we maintain and execute processes to minimize these events, we cannot completely eliminate this risk. The Property and Casualty Group faces significant competition from other regional and national insurance companies. Failure to keep pace with competitors may result in lower market share and revenues, which may have a material adverse affect on the Property and Casualty Group’s financial condition. The Property and Casualty Group competes with regional and national property/casualty insurers including direct writers of insurance coverage. Many of these competitors are larger and many have greater financial, technical and operating resources. In addition, there is competition within each independent insurance agency that represents other carriers as well as the Property and Casualty Group. If we are unable to perform at industry best practice levels in terms of quality, cost containment, and speed-to-market due to inferior operating resources and/or problems with external relationships, the Property and Casualty Group’s business performance may suffer. As the business environment changes, if we are unable to adapt timely to emerging industry changes, or if our people do not conform to the changes, the Property and Casualty Group’s business could be materially impacted. The property/casualty insurance industry is highly competitive on the basis of product, price and service. If competitors offer property/casualty products with more coverage and/or better service or offer lower rates, and we are unable to implement product or service improvements quickly enough to keep pace, the Property and Casualty Group’s ability to grow and renew its business may be adversely impacted. The internet continues to grow as a method of product distribution, and as a preferred method of product and price comparison. We compete against established ‘direct to consumer’ insurers as well as insurers that use a combination of agent and online distribution. We expect the competitors in this channel to grow. Failure to position our distribution technology effectively in light of these trends and changing demographics could inhibit the Property and Casualty Group’s ability to grow and maintain its customer base. The Property and Casualty Group’s growth could also be adversely impacted by an inability to accommodate prospective customers based on lack of geographic agency presence. 12 Table of Contents Changes in applicable insurance laws, regulations or changes in the way regulators administer those laws or regulations could adversely change the Property and Casualty Group’s operating environment and increase its exposure to loss or put it at a competitive disadvantage. Property and casualty insurers are subject to extensive supervision in the states in which they do business. This regulatory oversight includes, by way of example, matters relating to licensing examination, rate setting, market conduct, policy forms, limitations on the nature and amount of certain investments, claims practices, mandated participation in involuntary markets and guaranty funds, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, transactions between affiliates and restrictions on underwriting standards. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of policyholders and not for the benefit of shareholders. For instance, members of the Property and Casualty Group are subject to involuntary participation in specified markets in various states in which they operate, and the rate levels the Property and Casualty Group is permitted to charge do not always correspond with the underlying costs associated with the coverage issued. Although currently the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal programs, such as federal terrorism backstop legislation and the Federal Insurance Office established under the Dodd-Frank Act can also impact the insurance industry. In addition to specific insurance regulation, the Property and Casualty Group must also comply with other regulatory, legal and ethical requirements relating to the general operation of a business. Premium rates and reserves must be established for members of the Property and Casualty Group from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period. The Property and Casualty Group’s underwriting profitability could be adversely affected to the extent such premium rates or reserves are too low or by the effects of inflation. One of the distinguishing features of the property and casualty insurance industry in general is that its products are priced before its costs are known, as premium rates are generally determined before losses are reported. Consequently, in establishing premium rates, we attempt to anticipate the potential impact of inflation, including medical cost inflation, construction and auto repair cost inflation and tort issues. Medical costs are a broad element of inflation that impacts personal and commercial auto, general liability, workers compensation and commercial multi-peril lines of insurance written by the Property and Casualty Group. Accordingly, premium rates must be established from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period. These premium rates may prove to be inadequate if future inflation is significantly higher than the inflation anticipated in the pricing. Further, property and casualty insurers establish reserves for losses and loss expenses that will not be paid and settled for many years. Numerous factors affect both the current estimates and final settlement value of these losses and loss expenses. It is possible that the ultimate liability for these losses and loss expenses will exceed these reserves because of unanticipated changes in the future development of known losses, the unanticipated emergence of losses that have occurred but are currently unreported and larger than expected settlements on pending and unreported claims. The process of estimating reserves is inherently judgmental and can be influenced by factors that are subject to variation. If pricing or reserves of the Property and Casualty Group are not sufficient, the Property and Casualty Group’s underwriting profitability may be adversely impacted. Not completely knowing costs before products are priced has caused the property and casualty insurance industry to cycle through periods of pricing corrections, resulting in an oscillation of profitability and premium growth. Based on this experience, we expect this cyclicality to continue. The Property and Casualty Group seeks an appropriate balance between profitability and premium growth, but the need to remain competitive prevents it from being completely immune to the cyclical routine. The periods of intense price competition in the cycle could adversely affect the Property and Casualty Group’s financial condition, profitability, or cash flows. Emerging claim and coverage issues in the insurance industry are unpredictable and could cause an adverse effect on the Property and Casualty Group’s results of operation or financial condition. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect the Property and Casualty Group’s business by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after the Property and Casualty Group has issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under the Property and Casualty Group’s insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. 13 Table of Contents Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect EFL’s operating results. Reserves for life-contingent contract benefits are computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs may be required which could have a material adverse effect on EFL’s operating results. The financial performance of members of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic losses, including terrorism. The Property and Casualty Group conducts business in 11 states and the District of Columbia, primarily in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwestern and Southeastern portions of the United States. A substantial portion of this business is private passenger and commercial automobile, homeowners and workers compensation insurance in Ohio, North Carolina, Maryland, Virginia and particularly, Pennsylvania. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, change in climate condition, general economic trend, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition disproportionately affecting one or more of the states in which the Property and Casualty Group conducts substantial business could adversely affect the results of operations of members of the Property and Casualty Group. Common natural catastrophe events include hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, hail storms and severe winter weather. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes is inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property/casualty insurance operations, as well as a decrease in our equity, net income or revenue. The federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization and Extension Act of 2007 requires that some coverage for terrorist loss be offered by primary commercial property insurers and provides federal assistance for recovery of claims through 2014. While the Property and Casualty Group is exposed to terrorism losses in commercial lines and workers compensation, these lines are afforded a limited backstop above insurer deductibles for acts of terrorism under this federal program. The Property and Casualty Group has no personal lines terrorist coverage in place. The Property and Casualty Group could incur large net losses if terrorist attacks occur. The Property and Casualty Group maintains a property catastrophe reinsurance treaty that was renewed effective January 1, 2011, that provides coverage of 90% of a loss up to $500 million in excess of the Property and Casualty Group’s loss retention of $350 million per occurrence. In addition, a second property catastrophe reinsurance treaty was entered into with nonaffiliated reinsurers providing coverage of up to 90% of a loss of $25 million in excess of the first property catastrophe reinsurance treaty’s coverage of $850 million. The treaties exclude losses from acts of terrorism. Catastrophe reinsurance may prove inadequate if a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit which could adversely affect the Property and Casualty Group’s underwriting profitability and financial position. The inability to acquire reinsurance coverage at reasonable rates or collect amounts due from reinsurers could have an adverse effect on the Property and Casualty Group. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity. The availability of reinsurance capacity can be impacted by general economic conditions and conditions in the reinsurance market, such as the occurrence of significant reinsured events. The availability and cost of reinsurance could affect the Property and Casualty Group’s business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Property and Casualty Group to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, the Property and Casualty Group remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the Property and Casualty Group from its primary obligations to policyholders. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate the Property and Casualty Group’s obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, the Property and Casualty Group is subject to credit risk with respect to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The Property and Casualty Group’s inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have an adverse effect on its underwriting profitability and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents The performance of the Exchange’s investment portfolio is subject to a variety of investment risks, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Exchange’s investment portfolio is comprised principally of fixed-income maturities, common stocks, and limited partnerships. At December 31, 2010 the Exchange’s investment portfolio consisted of approximately 65% fixed income securities, 20% common stocks, 10% limited partnerships, and 5% preferred equity securities. All of the Exchange’s marketable securities are subject to market volatility. To the extent that future market volatility negatively impacts the Exchange’s investments, its financial condition will be negatively impacted. We review the investment portfolio on a continuous basis to evaluate positions that might have incurred other-than-temporary declines in value. The primary factors considered in our review of investment valuation include the extent and duration to which fair value is less than cost, historical operating performance and financial condition of the issuer, short- and long-term prospects of the issuer and its industry, specific events that occurred affecting the issuer including rating downgrades and, depending on the type of security, our intent to sell or our ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value. As the process for determining impairments is highly subjective, changes in our assessments may have a material effect on the Exchange’s operating results and financial condition. See also Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. If the fixed-income, equity, or limited partnership portfolios were to suffer a substantial decrease in value, the Exchange’s financial position could be materially adversely affected through increased unrealized losses or impairments. A significant decrease in the Exchange’s portfolio could also put it, or its subsidiaries, at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements. Currently, 30% of the Exchange’s fixed-income portfolio is invested in financial sector securities and 20% are invested in municipal securities and results may vary depending on the market environment. The performance of the fixed-income portfolio is subject to a number of risks including: • Interest rate risk — the risk of adverse changes in the value of fixed-income securities as a result of increases in market interest rates. • Investment credit risk — the risk that the value of certain investments may decrease due to the deterioration in financial condition of, or the liquidity available to, one or more issuers of those securities or, in the case of asset-backed securities, due to the deterioration of the loans or other assets that underlie the securities, which, in each case, also includes the risk of permanent loss. • Concentration risk — the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors, or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition, performance, or outlook of those issuers, sectors, or industries. • Liquidity risk — the risk that the Exchange will not be able to convert investment securities into cash on favorable terms and on a timely basis, or that the Exchange will not be able to sell them at all, when desired. Disruptions in the financial markets, or a lack of buyers for the specific securities that the Exchange is trying to sell, could prevent it from liquidating securities or cause a reduction in prices to levels that are not acceptable to the Exchange. The Exchange’s common and preferred equity securities have exposure to price risk, the risk of potential loss in estimated fair value resulting from an adverse change in prices. The Exchange does not hedge its exposure to equity price risk inherent in its equity investments. Equity markets, sectors, industries, and individual securities may also be subject to some of the same risks that affect the Exchange’s fixed-income portfolio, as discussed above. In addition, a significant portion of the Exchange’s portfolio is invested in limited partnerships. At December 31, 2010, the Exchange had investments in limited partnerships of $1.1 billion, or 8% of total assets. In addition, the Exchange is obligated to invest up to an additional $402 million in limited partnerships, including private equity, real estate and mezzanine partnership investments. Limited partnerships are significantly less liquid and generally involve higher degrees of price risk than publicly traded securities. Limited partnerships, like publicly traded securities, have exposure to market volatility; but unlike fixed income securities, cash flows and return expectations 15 Table of Contents are less predictable. The primary basis for the valuation of limited partnership interests are financial statements prepared by the general partner. Because of the timing of the preparation and delivery of these financial statements, the use of the most recently available financial statements provided by the general partners result in a quarter delay in the inclusion of the limited partnership results in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Due to this delay, the Exchange’s financial statements at December 31, 2010, do not reflect market conditions experienced in the fourth quarter of 2010. Deteriorating capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect the Exchange’s ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital. Sufficient liquidity and capital levels are required to pay claims, claims-related expenses and income taxes as well as to build the Exchange’s investment portfolio, provide for additional protection against possible large, unexpected losses and maintain adequate surplus amounts. Management estimates the appropriate level of capital necessary based on current and projected results, which include a factor for potential exposures based on these Risk Factors. Failure to accurately estimate the Exchange’s capital needs may have a material adverse effect on the Exchange’s financial condition until additional sources of capital can be located. Further, a deteriorating financial condition may create a negative perception of the Exchange by third parties, including rating agencies, investors, agents, and customers which could impact the Exchange’s ability to access additional capital in the debt or equity markets. The primary sources of liquidity for the Exchange are insurance premiums and cash flow generated from the investment portfolio. In the event the Exchange’s current sources do not satisfy its needs, the Exchange has the ability to access its $200 million bank line of credit, from which there were no borrowings as of December 31, 2010. The Exchange may also sell assets in the investment portfolio. Volatility in the financial markets could impair the Exchange’s ability to sell certain of its fixed income securities or to a greater extent its significantly less liquid limited partnership investments, or cause such investments to sell at deep discounts. In the event these traditional sources of liquidity are not available, the Exchange may have to seek additional financing. The Exchange’s access to funds will depend on a number of factors including current market conditions, the availability of credit to the financial services industry, market liquidity, and credit ratings. In deteriorating market conditions, the Exchange may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If there were a failure to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating, the Property and Casualty Group’s competitive position in the insurance industry would be adversely affected. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s sales. Higher ratings generally indicate greater financial stability and a stronger ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors that the rating agencies believe are relevant to policyholders. Currently the Property and Casualty Group’s pooled AM Best rating is an A+ (“superior”). A significant downgrade in this or other ratings would reduce the competitive position of the Property and Casualty Group making it more difficult to attract profitable business in the highly competitive property/casualty insurance market. The Property and Casualty Group is subject to claims and legal proceedings, which, if determined unfavorably to the Property and Casualty Group, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Property and Casualty Group faces a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating its businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. The Property and Casualty Group’s pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to the Property and Casualty Group and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which it operates. In the Property and Casualty Group’s insurance operations, we are, have been, or may become subject to class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to claims payments and procedures, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products, and breaching fiduciary or other duties to customers. The Property and Casualty Group is also subject to litigation arising out of its general business activities such as its contractual relationships. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against the Property and Casualty Group may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The Property and Casualty Group is also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and 16 Table of Contents authorities. See also the litigation risks associated with the Indemnity shareholder interest for additional discussion of litigation risks. The Exchange is dependent on the Indemnity to perform certain services, including sales, underwriting, and the issuance of policies. Failure to perform these services effectively may have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Exchange. Pursuant to the attorney-in-fact agreements with the policyholders at the Exchange, the Indemnity is responsible for performing key functions for the Exchange including management and operational services and related technology systems. The Exchange has no employees, as the Indemnity employs all personnel related to performing operating functions for the Exchange. In addition, the Board of Directors for the Indemnity has the responsibility for such Exchange-related activities as setting the management fee paid by the Exchange to the Indemnity. As a result, the business and financial condition of the Exchange would be materially adversely affected if the Indemnity was not able to provide the necessary operating and management services required by the Exchange. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 