ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Zi operates in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below before purchasing the Company’s common shares. The occurrence of any of the following events could harm the Company. If these events occur, the trading price of the Company’s common shares could decline, and shareholders may lose part or even all of their investment. Risks related to the Pending Acquisition of Zi by Nuance Failure to complete the Arrangement with Nuance could materially and adversely affect Zi’s results of operations and share price. - 10 - On February 26, 2009, Zi entered into the definitive Arrangement Agreement with Nuance. Consummation of the Arrangement is subject to customary closing conditions, court and other regulatory approvals and approval by the Zi Shareholders. Zi cannot provide assurance that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that Zi will be able to successfully consummate the Arrangement as currently contemplated under the Arrangement Agreement, or at all. As a result of the pending Arrangement, or if the Arrangement is not consummated: The Zi Shareholders may not receive $0.69 per Zi Share, consisting of approximately 0.03706 shares of Nuance Common Stock and, subject to the adjustment, $0.34 in cash for each Zi Share, which Nuance has agreed to pay in the Arrangement Agreement, and Zi’s share price would likely decline; Zi is liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial, advisory and other costs related to the negotiation and completion of the Arrangement; Under some circumstances, Zi may have to pay a termination fee to Nuance in the amount of $1.5 million; The attention of Zi’s management and its employees has been diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on the planning and closing the Arrangement; Zi’s customers may seek to modify or terminate existing agreements, or prospective customers may delay entering into a new agreement or purchasing Zi products as a result of the announcement of the Arrangement, which could cause Zi’s revenues to materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue to be lower than expected; and Zi’s ability to attract new employees and retain its existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the Arrangement, and Zi may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse affect on Zi’s results of operations and share price. Zi’s officers and directors have certain interests in the Arrangement that are different from, or in addition to, interests of Zi’s securityholders. Zi’s officers and directors have certain interests in the Arrangement that are different from, or in addition to, interests of Zi’s securityholders. Several of Zi’s executive officers are parties to employment agreements with Zi, which may provide severance and other benefits in the case of qualifying terminations of employment in connection with a change of control of Zi, including consummation of the Arrangement. Executive officers and directors of Zi have rights to indemnification and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that will survive consummation of the Arrangement. Zi’s securityholders should be aware of these interests when considering the Board’s recommendation to approve the Arrangement. Securityholders are encouraged to review the section entitled “Interests of Management and Others in the Arrangement” in the Information Circular furnished under the cover of Form 6-K on March 19, 2009 for more information. Zi and Nuance may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, the regulatory approvals required to consummate the Arrangement. Completion of the Arrangement is conditioned upon the receipt of all required governmental consents and authorizations, including by the approval of the Court of Queen's Bench of Alberta. Complying with requests from such governmental agencies, including requests for additional information and documents, could delay consummation of the Arrangement. In certain instances, the Arrangement Agreement requires Zi to pay a termination fee of $1.5 million to Nuance. This payment could affect the decisions of a third-party considering making an alternative acquisition proposal to the Arrangement. Under the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, Zi will be required to pay to Nuance a termination fee of $1.5 million if the Arrangement Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. As well, according to the Arrangement Agreement, Zi is restricted from soliciting third parties to make an acquisition proposal. Also, before Zi can support any third party acquisition proposal, the Arrangement Agreement requires that any third party seeking to acquire Zi must submit an acquisition proposal that is, among other things, at a value per Zi Share in excess of the consideration to be paid by Nuance by at least $0.05 per Zi Share. These conditions could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by a third-party seeking to acquire Zi and could deter such third-party from making a competing acquisition proposal. If the Arrangement is not consummated, Zi may face significant litigation risks with Nuance. Zi currently has several litigation matters involving Nuance. See also Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. If the Arrangement is not consummated, Nuance may seek to even more aggressively pursue litigation against Zi. If Nuance were to pursue additional litigation against Zi, the cost of such litigation to Zi and the distraction to Zi’s management and Board from Zi’s business and operations may be significant. - 11 - If the Arrangement is not consummated, Zi will likely need additional funding to fund its operations. If the Arrangement is not consummated, Zi will likely need additional financing to fund its operations. Such additional financing may involve the issuance of additional common shares or other equity and/or debt securities and other forms of borrowing. Issuances of additional equity securities may dilute the per share value of common shares held by Zi’s existing shareholders. If Zi issues debt securities or obtains other forms of borrowings, Zi may have to accept terms or borrowing arrangements that limit its ability to incur additional debt, or that require it to maintain certain financial ratios or subject it to other covenants that could restrict its business and growth. Further, any such financing may not be available to Zi on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If any such financing is not available to Zi, Zi may be required to significantly curtail its operations. Risks that May Impact Zi’s Business or Results of Operations if the Arrangement is not Consummated Zi has incurred net losses to date and may not become profitable. The Company has a limited history of operating profits. Zi’s consolidated net losses totalled $7.4 million for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, $5.1 million for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and $11.0 million for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2008, Zi’s accumulated deficit was $121.1 million. Zi faces significant and potentially costly challenges in simultaneously pursuing key research and development goals while attracting customers for its products and services. The Company is executing a business plan to continue as a going concern, which is to achieve profitability through cost reductions and increased revenues. The Company intends to ultimately achieve profitability. There is substantial doubt that the Company will be successful in executing this plan and continue as a going concern. Should the Company fail to achieve profitability, or if necessary, raise sufficient capital to sustain operations, the Company may be forced to suspend operations, and possibly even liquidate its assets and wind-up and dissolve the Company. Zi’s operations may have been, and could be in the future, adversely affected by the Receiver for the Lancer Funds holding approximately 37% of the Company’s shares. In August 2003, Zi became aware of information that suggested a group of funds, including Lancer Partners LP and Lancer Offshore Inc. (collectively, the “Lancer Funds” or “Lancer Entities”), had accumulated a significant percentage of Zi’s outstanding common shares. This information followed the appointment in July 2003 of the Receiver for the Lancer Funds who was appointed as a result of a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) enforcement proceeding which alleged securities law violations by the management of the Lancer Funds. In December 2003, Zi learned through Lancer Funds’ regulatory disclosure that the Lancer Funds believed their ownership amounted to approximately 49% of Zi’s outstanding shares at the time. The accumulation was done in apparent violation of U.S. and Canadian securities laws, and without Zi’s knowledge or assistance. Based on the Receiver’s most recent regulatory filings, the Receiver holds 18,718,008 of Zi’s common shares, which amounts to 37% of Zi’s outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2008. Certain legal disputes arose between the Company and the Receiver, which were settled pursuant to a settlement agreement signed in February, 2007. Prior to such settlement, the legal matters related to the Receiver had or may have had adverse effects on Zi’s operations in a number of ways: the Company incurred significant legal fees in connection with issues concerning the Receiver; promising acquisition candidates and possible financing sources terminated discussions with Zi based upon uncertainty regarding the future composition of Zi’s Board and management of the Company and the possible impact of sales of Zi’s securities by the Receiver; Zi’s customers and potential customers similarly raised concerns about the future management of the Company and its ability to live up to its contractual commitments; Zi’s efforts to recruit highly qualified members of executive management and additional directors from the Company’s industry were hampered by the disputes between the Company and the Receiver; and Scarce management resources were diverted from Company operations to addressing the foregoing concerns raised by Zi’s customers, employees, shareholders and potential acquisition candidates. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the parties discontinued, with prejudice, all litigation and regulatory proceedings of any kind. In addition, the Receiver, and certain of Zi’s current and former directors delivered mutual releases. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that disputes with the Receiver and the adverse effects resulting therefrom noted above will not occur again in the future. Uncertainties regarding the impact of possible sales of Zi’s shares by the Receiver may negatively impact the market price for Zi’s securities. According to the Receiver’s filings with the SEC, as of the date of this Report, the Receiver holds approximately 37 percent of Zi’s outstanding shares. The Receiver has in the past, and may in the future, announce an intention to sell shares in the open market. These announcements, whether or not they are accompanied by contemporaneous sales, may have a depressive effect on the market price for Zi’s securities. See Item I – “History and Development of the Company- Acquisition of Zi Shares by the Lancer Funds”. - 12 - The Receiver may negotiate the resale or transfer of all or a significant portion of its shares in Zi without Zi’s involvement at any time. The Receiver was appointed by a court of law to manage all of the assets of the Lancer Funds, including the Lancer Funds’ position in Zi. Although the Receiver has continued to maintain a significant ownership interest in Zi since its initial appointment, the Receiver may attempt to divest itself of such interest. The Receiver may negotiate with third parties, without Zi’s involvement, the Receiver’s resale or transfer of all or a significant portion of its shares in Zi in a private transaction or as a part of a takeover or acquisition proposal. In light of the number of shares held by the Receiver, any such resale or transfer could result in a third-party acquiring a significant ownership interest in Zi or possibly result in a change of control of Zi. As a result of the historical relationship between Zi and the Receiver, there can be no assurance that Zi will have input as to whom and at what price such shares may be transferred or sold. Declining general economic, business and industry conditions have adversely affect Zi’s business and results of operations. The recent disruptions in global economic conditions have significantly adversely affected the software and telecommunications industries as a whole and have also impacted upon Zi’s business and results of operations as well. Concerns over credit conditions resulting from the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and spending, reduced corporate profits and spending, and generally adverse business conditions have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. As a result, Zi has experienced deferrals and a slowdown in orders and anticipates this trend to continue as the current recession is expected to last through 2009. These conditions make it extremely difficult for Zi’s customers, Zi’s vendors and Zi to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause businesses to further slow spending on Zi’s products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times such as the current recession, Zi’s customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to Zi. If that were to occur, Zi may be required to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts and Zi’s accounts receivable days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn and any future downturn may reduce Zi’s revenue and its ability to secure financing in the future on favourable terms, if at all. Zi cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the software and telecommunications industries. If the economy or the markets in which Zi operates do not improve from their current condition or if they continue to deteriorate, Zi’s customers or potential customers will continue to reduce or delay their product development, which could impact Zi’s business and results of operations. Further, given the current economic downturn, there is significant uncertainty the Company will be successful in marketing Qix to OEMs and ODMs. Zi operates in a new and developing market and the Company may not be able to sustain the rapid development required in its industry to remain competitive. The development of Zi’s input technology market depends upon: the growth of third party applications incorporating Zi’s products and technologies; the demand for new applications; the ability of Zi’s products and technologies to meet and adapt to these needs; and continuing price and performance improvements in hardware and software technology to reduce the cost and increase the performance of products incorporating Zi’s products and technologies. These markets may not develop further and the current level of market acceptance of Zi’s products may decrease or may not be sustainable. The Company must adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements to remain competitive. The market for Zi’s products has been characterized by: rapid technological change; frequent product introductions; evolving customer requirements; and aggressive price competition. Zi believes that these trends will continue into the foreseeable future. Zi’s success will depend, in part, upon its ability to: enhance its existing products and gain market share while controlling costs; successfully develop new products or additional localized versions that meet increasingly demanding customer requirements; and gain market acceptance. - 13 - To achieve these goals, Zi will need to continue to make substantial investments in product development and marketing. Zi may not: have sufficient resources to make these investments; be successful in developing product enhancements or new products on a timely basis, if at all; or be able to successfully market these enhancements and new products once developed. Further, Zi’s products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards, changing technology or developments by competitors. If the market for Zi’s products does not develop on a continuing and sustainable basis, its financial position may be adversely impacted and could include recording additional impairment charges on the value of capitalized software development costs. Zi operates in an intensely competitive environment and it may not be able to compete successfully or gain market acceptance. The software industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, price competition and technological obsolescence. Major Asian, European and North American software and technology companies engage in development of input or other interface software. Zi’s actual or potential input technology competitors include, but are not limited to: Motorola; Nuance; Nokia; Openwave; Microsoft; Research in Motion, Abaxia, FujiSoft, Adaptx, Vision Objects, Diotek, HanWang, Guobi and Chinastar. Many of Zi’s competitors have longer operating histories and have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. To a great extent, Zi’s ability to compete will depend on such factors as product features, technical superiority, ease of use, price, quality, technical support and services, product development capabilities, marketing, distribution channels, and ability to meet delivery schedules. There can be no assurance that Zi’s products and services can compete successfully or gain market acceptance. Other companies with greater financial and technical resources and larger marketing organizations could enter the market and pose a potential threat if they can develop technologies and products that can rival those developed by Zi. Zi’s products may contain defects that could harm its reputation, be costly to correct, expose the Company to litigation and harm its operating results and financial condition. Zi develops software products that may contain undetected errors or failures. Design errors or hidden defects in Zi’s software or in third party components or software may be discovered after initial product sampling, resulting in delays in volume production or recalls of products sold. If defects are discovered, Zi may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in Zi’s products could result in a loss of, or a delay in, market acceptance of Zi’s products. In addition, defects in Zi’s products could cause adverse publicity, damage its reputation and impair its ability to acquire new customers. In addition, Zi may need to make significant expenditures to eliminate defects from its products. As well, defects and failures in Zi’s products could expose it to claims for liability or other claims involving costly litigation. Zi may be unable to develop and to maintain collaborative development and marketing relationships, which could result in a decline in revenues or slower than anticipated growth rates. A key element of Zi’s business strategy is the formation of collaborative relationships with other leading companies. Zi believes that its success will depend, in part, on its ability to maintain these relationships and to cultivate additional alliances with such companies. There is no assurance that Zi’s historical collaborative relationships will be commercially successful, that Zi will be able to negotiate additional collaborative relationships, that such additional collaborative relationships will be available to Zi on acceptable terms, or that any such relationships, if established, will be commercially successful. In addition, there is no assurance that parties with whom Zi has established, or will establish, collaborative relationships will not, either directly or in collaboration with others, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products in addition to, or instead of, Zi’s products or experience financial or other difficulties that lessen their value to Zi and to its customers. Zi’s financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by either Zi’s failure or the failure of these third parties to establish and maintain collaborative relationships. Zi relies on large and small customers to adopt its technology and its financial success may be affected if these customers either do not implement Zi’s technology or suffer their own financial hardships. Zi’s royalty and licensing fee-based revenues depend in substantial part on Zi’s ability to successfully integrate and maintain compatibility of its technology with the applications of its customers. Because Zi relies heavily on third party integration of its technology into customer products, lead time to revenue recognition can be longer than software products directly released into consumer channels. Purchase of Zi’s products by customers often requires significant expenditure of time and resources by the customers. Accordingly, the decision to purchase Zi’s products typically requires significant pre-purchase evaluation. Zi may spend significant time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of its products and technologies. During this evaluation period, Zi may expend substantial sales, marketing and management resources. Furthermore, Zi’s products and technologies sold and integrated into customer applications are subject to both customer production schedules and customer success in marketing the products and generating product sales. Zi’s revenues are thus subject to delays and possible cancellation resulting from customer integration risks and delays. Zi may not be successful in continuing to be selected as a technology provider for these customers, and the failure to be selected by Zi’s customers would have a material adverse effect on Zi’s sales. In addition, the resolution of a patent infringement claim with a principal competitor restricts the Company and its affiliates from using and selling certain no-longer distributed earlier versions of eZiText for Latin-based languages in the United States. Furthermore, due to Zi’s royalty-based revenue model, the failure of Zi’s key customers to achieve market acceptance of products incorporating Zi’s software could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. There is an increased number of customers who have negotiated fixed pricing into their licensing agreements which means that Zi’s total compensation for successful products incorporating Zi’s software could be capped at a level that is below the compensation it might have received from a royalty-based license agreement and, as a result, these capped amounts may have a material adverse effect on Zi’s revenue growth. - 14 - As well, the Company has invested money, time and resources into the acquisition and development of Decuma and Qix technologies, both of which are recent additions to the Zi portfolio of products. Zi may not be successful in persuading new customers to license such technologies. Potential customers may spend significant amounts of time evaluating Zi’s technologies prior to their decision to license and deploy Zi’s products. Furthermore, any customers who do license such technology may fail to achieve market acceptance of products incorporating such technologies. Due to Zi’s license-fee and royalty-based revenue models, any of the above-referenced potential failures could have a material adverse effect on Zi’s business, operating results and financial condition. Due to these factors, Zi’s sales cycles are long and unpredictable. As a result, Zi’s revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and Zi may be unable to adjust its expenses accordingly. This could cause Zi’s operating results and share price to fluctuate. Customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate products before incorporating them into products. In addition, Zi expects that the delays which are inherent in its sales cycle could raise additional risks of customers deciding to cancel or change their product plans. Zi’s business would be adversely affected if a significant customer reduces or delays orders or chooses not to deploy products incorporating its technology. Zi’s customers are subject to highly competitive demand and pricing structures for products and services prevalent in the telecommunications industry. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 Zi derived 44%, 33% and 37% respectively of its total revenue from two customers. Zi believes that revenue derived from current and future customers who dominate handset phone manufacturing will continue to represent a significant portion of Zi’s total revenue for its technologies. Zi’s inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of contracts from such dominant customers would have a material adverse effect on Zi’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows derived from Zi’s technologies. Moreover, Zi’s success will depend in part upon its ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of its customers and general economic conditions. As well, certain of Zi’s key customer licenses are at, or approaching, the end of their license terms and it is uncertain whether Zi will be successful in negotiating renewals with these customers. Zi’s overall market breadth for products and services may be constrained by: the increasing market share of major handset industry leaders; the influence of software integrators and platform suppliers in serving new customers with pre-packaged solutions; and dependence on a small number of customers, and potential customers with a trend in the industry towards increased consolidation among the customer base. Zi’s ability to operate could be hindered by the proprietary rights of others and its inability to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. A number of companies and educational institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to Zi’s business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with Zi’s technologies or intellectual property rights or limit the ability of Zi’s customers to integrate Zi’s technologies onto their platforms. Such conflicts could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that Zi may be able to obtain or result in the denial of Zi’s patent applications altogether. If patents that cover Zi’s activities are issued to other persons or companies, Zi could be made subject to claims of infringement, and, as described in the section below, Zi has been affected by such litigation. Even if Zi believes that it does not infringe, the costs of defending intellectual property litigation are substantial. In the event that other parties' patents cover any portion of Zi’s activities, Zi may be forced to develop alternatives or negotiate a license for such technology. Zi may not be successful in either developing alternative technologies or acquiring licenses upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could harm Zi’s business and decrease its earnings. If Zi does not obtain such licenses, it could encounter delays in the introduction of its products or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses is prohibited. For a summary of material legal proceedings related to the Company, see Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings”. - 15 - Existing copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws only afford limited protection for Zi’s proprietary rights. Third parties may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of Zi’s products or proprietary information. As well, performance improvements in computing capability of appliances that serve Zi’s market may make it easier for competitors to replicate the appearance and functionality of Zi’s products without impinging on certain technical elements of Zi’s intellectual property. Accordingly, Zi may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property. Zi’s business may be adversely affected by a settlement agreement with a principal competitor. As described in Item 1 – “History and Development of the Company - Intellectual Property Litigation”, the Company and AOL (including its affiliates) settled a judgment under U.S. based litigation by a written settlement agreement dated December 6, 2002. Under the settlement agreement, the Company consented to, among other things, an injunction under a consent judgment which prohibits the sale or use in the United States of earlier versions of the Company’s eZiText product. Such earlier versions of eZiText are not currently sold or offered for sale or used by the Company in the United States. This injunction does not apply to or prohibit the sale or use of such earlier versions of the Company’s eZiText product in countries other than the United States. In the ordinary course of business, the Company, Nuance. (Zi’s principal competitor in the text input market and acquirer of Tegic, a former AOL subsidiary) and others seek to protect their intellectual property in various countries and jurisdictions through administrative proceedings and civil litigation. The settlement of the AOL lawsuit dealt only with certain patent infringement claims in the United States. Zi needs to be able to manage its growth or else its operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Zi believes that continued growth in the number, breadth and complexity of its product lines while controlling its operating costs will be required to establish and maintain its competitive position. Zi’s growth, coupled with the rapid evolution of its markets, has placed, and may continue to place, significant strain on the Company’s administrative, operational and financial resources and increased demands on its internal systems and procedures. In the event that Zi’s operations continue to grow, or grow rapidly, there is a risk that Zi’s current administrative infrastructure, systems and procedures may not be adequate to support the Company’s operations, or that management may not be able to achieve the rapid, effective execution of the product and business initiatives necessary to successfully penetrate the markets for Zi’s products and services. If Zi is unable to manage future growth effectively, its business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If the Company does not continue to develop new products, future revenues will be negatively affected. The Company’s existing product portfolio is limited. Zi’s financial success relies substantially on a limited number of products. Failure to innovate, develop and integrate new products into Zi’s existing product lines, in addition to enhancing the performance and functionality of existing products, could result in the Company failing to achieve financial success. Zi depends on its key personnel and failure to attract and retain these people could have a negative impact on Zi’s operations. Zi’s success will be dependent, in part, on the performance of the Company’s personnel who develop Zi’s technology and manage its business. Zi has personnel that it believes are competent in the development of its technology, services and software related products and have endeavored to hire and retain qualified managerial and technology development services people for the development and expansion of the Zi Technology business. Nevertheless, failure to retain their expertise or to attract and retain key personnel with necessary technological and marketing skills, could have a materially adverse effect upon Zi’s ability to grow and operate profitably. Likewise, failure to retain the services of Milos Djokovic, President and Chief Executive Officer, Blair Mullin, Chief Financial Officer, Roland Williams, Senior Vice President Intellectual Property, Axel Bernstorff, Vice President of Global Sales, Brandon Mensinga, Senior Director – Products, Weigen Qiu, Director - Technology Development and Blevins Tang, Director - Quality Assurance, could have a materially adverse effect upon Zi’s ability to grow and operate profitably. The Company’s insurance coverage does not include key-man life insurance for any of the above mentioned individuals. Zi operates in diverse geographic markets and faces regulatory and political risks abroad which could negatively impact its operations. Zi’s products and technologies are sold in a number of countries throughout the world. The primary markets for Zi’s products and technologies are Asia, North America and Europe. Zi’s international business operations expose the Company to difficulties in coordinating its international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments, as well as to risks of international political and economic conditions. - 16 - Zi’s global business may be materially adversely affected by, among other things: political and economic changes and disruptions in the countries into which Zi sells products or has operations; limits on repatriation of earnings; changes in various regulatory requirements and the cost of compliance with a wide variety of laws; difficulties in enforcing contracts; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; governmental currency controls; export/import controls; tariff regulations and other trade barriers; costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; and/ or possible adverse tax consequences. In addition, Zi’s operations and the market price of its common shares may also be affected by adverse economic conditions in Asia, North America and Europe. Zi’s operations and its ability to continue to generate revenues in these regions may be affected by adverse economic conditions or political instability in such regions as well as other external business risks. There can be no assurance that such factors will not materially adversely affect the revenues from Zi’s international business and, consequently, its results of operations. In addition, revenues and/or earnings earned abroad may be subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction, or certain expenses which Zi has claimed as a deduction for tax may be disallowed for various reasons by a domestic or foreign jurisdiction, which could materially adversely affect Zi’s earnings. Zi anticipates the need for additional capital to support its operations and future growth. Zi anticipates that it will require capital to sustain its operations and to finance the continued growth of operations. To date, Zi has raised capital primarily through private placements of common shares. Unless Zi’s cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet its operating capital requirements, any shortfall must be covered by Zi’s cash position, the sale of securities or through other forms of third party financing. Zi may still require additional financing to support its product expansion or continued operations. There can be no assurance that sufficient financing will continue to be available to sustain Zi’s operations and growth, to develop new and existing markets or to complete development of products that fully exploit Zi’s owned or licensed technologies. Failure to obtain adequate additional financing on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on Zi’s business and operations. Zi’s quarterly results are subject to fluctuations which could negatively affect its financial results. Zi has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results caused by many factors. These factors include, among other things: dependence on the market acceptance and sales of Zi’s licensees’ products in which its technologies are embedded; seasonality of sales of Zi’s licensees’ products; changes in the demand for Zi’s technology; the introduction or enhancement of products and services by Zi and its competitors and market acceptance of those enhancements or products; delays in the introduction of products or enhancements by Zi; the timing of significant orders, delivery and implementation of Zi’s products; the gain or loss of any significant customer; changes in Zi’s pricing policies or those of Zi’s competitors; the mix of distribution channels through which products are sold and the mix of products and services sold; the mix of international and North American revenues; exchange rate fluctuations; the timing of any acquisitions and related costs; foreign currency exchange rates and general economic conditions; and legal and other costs associated with defense and resolution of patent infringement claims and other litigation the Company is involved in. In addition, there are several factors that could cause material fluctuations in Zi’s revenues from quarter to quarter, including, among other things: the size and timing of individual license transactions by Zi’s customers; the potential for delay or deferral of customer implementation of Zi’s technology; the terms of future licensing arrangements between Zi and its customers; inaccuracies in reporting of royalties and license fees by customers; geopolitical events; world health factors; and credit risks such as bankruptcies or other economic hardships affecting any of Zi’s customers. - 17 - In addition, Zi’s new license revenue and results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of Zi’s control. A sale of a new license generally requires a customer to make a purchase decision that involves a significant commitment of capital. As a result, the sales cycle associated with the new license revenue will vary substantially and will be subject to a number of factors, including customers’ budgetary constraints, timing of budget cycles and concerns about the pricing or introduction of new products by Zi or its competitors. If Zi’s revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of financial analysts or investors, the trading price of Zi’s common shares could fall. The laws and policies restricting foreign alliances, partnerships, investments, distribution or sale in the software technology industry could change and adversely affect Zi’s operations in the foreign countries in which it operates. Zi may also be materially adversely affected by laws restricting foreign alliances, partnerships and investment in the technology and information industries. Some countries have extensive restrictions on foreign alliances, partnerships and investments in the information industries. For example, China has substantial limitations on companies that provide content on the Internet and dissemination of information on the Internet. Internet service providers are governed under telecommunications laws which substantially restrict foreign ownership and investment in telecommunications companies in China. In 1999, the Chinese government requested the termination of certain Chinese-foreign corporations on the basis that the structure used for these corporations was no longer permitted. There is no way of predicting whether the governments in the countries in which Zi operates will enact any similar limitations with respect to any of the products or services that Zi sells or licenses, or whether any such law, if enacted, will force Zi to reduce or restructure its products and offerings in such countries. The realization of any of these possibilities may substantially increase Zi’s costs of doing business or delay the commercialization of its products, which may adversely affect Zi’s business and results of operations. Zi may be materially adversely affected by foreign laws restricting the repatriation of earnings. For example, the distribution of earnings from China to foreign countries is subject to the approval of the Chinese Central Bank. The procedures are complicated and time consuming. Zi may become subject to claims from third parties (including foreign government agencies) based in foreign jurisdictions for violations of their laws. These laws may be changed or new laws may be enacted in the future. The administration and enforcement of law and justice in some jurisdictions that Zi does business in may be different and therefore unpredictable relative to U.S. practice. International litigation is often expensive, distracting and time consuming. These consequences could be particularly disruptive to Zi given its relatively small size of operations and limited resources. Accordingly, any occurrence of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on Zi’s business. Zi is subject to foreign currency exchange risks; accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material effect on its results of operations. A significant portion of Zi’s expenses have been, and will likely continue to be, incurred or generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally, the Canadian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese renminbi, Swedish krona, British pound and the Euro. Zi’s results are reported in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates have a material effect on Zi’s results of operations. In 2005, Chinese authorities re-valued the renminbi and it is no longer pegged against the U.S. dollar. To date, Zi has not engaged in foreign currency exchange rate hedging activities. If Zi implements hedging techniques in the future with respect to foreign currency transactions, there can be no assurance that Zi will be successful in such hedging activities. Conversion of the Chinese renminbi to other currencies is subject to approval by the government of China. Foreign exchange gains or losses for the past three years have been: a loss of $437,066, a gain of $293,079 and a gain of $235,113 in each of 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These gains and losses generally relate to balances on Zi’s balance sheet that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. It should be noted that Zi’s expenses are higher in 2008 compared to 2007 due to the depreciation of the U.S dollar against other currencies in general, especially against the Canadian dollar which has contributed most significantly to the increase in expenses. Zi estimates that expenses have increased by approximately $400,000 in 2008 compared to 2007 due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar. As a non-U.S. corporation, it may be difficult for shareholders to pursue claims under U.S. securities laws against Zi. The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be affected adversely by the fact that Zi is incorporated under the laws of Alberta, Canada, that the independent registered chartered accountants who have audited Zi’s financial statements and some or all of Zi’s directors and officers may be residents of Canada or elsewhere, and that all or a substantial portion of Zi’s assets and said persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of the common shares to effect service of process within the United States upon people who are not residents of the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States. - 18 - Zi is subject to examinations by taxation authorities of the jurisdictions in which it operates in the normal course of operations. In the past, Zi has been subject to examination by tax authorities, including an examination by the Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA), regarding Zi’s international transfer pricing policies and procedures and documentation for the 2002 and 2003 taxation years. Such examination by the CRA has been successfully resolved, however Zi may in the future be subject to additional examinations by various tax authorities. In responding to such examinations, Zi may incur significant costs and the expenditure of significant amounts of time, even if such examinations do not lead to an adjustment of the taxes payable by Zi. If an examination does reveal a discrepancy in Zi’s tax reporting, Zi may be subject to increased tax payments, interest and/or penalties. If the Company is characterized as a passive foreign investment company, its shareholders may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Although Zi has never made an annual determination of its passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) status, as such term is defined by US taxation legislation for US taxation purposes for any of its taxable years, Zi is not aware of any factor that would cause it to believe that it has ever been a PFIC, or would be for the current taxable year. PFIC classification is factual in nature, generally cannot be determined until the close of the taxable year in question, and is determined annually. There can be no assurance that Zi will not be considered a PFIC for any past or current taxable year. If Zi were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder (as defined in the Information Circular) holds Zi Shares, any gain recognized on the sale of such shares and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) paid on the shares must be ratably allocated to each day in a U.S. holder’s holding period for the shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. holder’s holding period for the shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. holder will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. The Company may be deemed to be a controlled foreign corporation under the Code. If more than 50% of the voting power of all classes of shares or total value of the shares of the Company is owned, directly or indirectly, by citizens or residents of the United States, United States domestic partnerships and corporations or estates or trusts other than foreign estates or trusts, each of whom owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Company, the Company could be treated as a “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC as such term is defined under Subpart F of the Code. This classification would effect many complex results including the required inclusion by such United States shareholders in income of their pro rata shares of “Subpart F income” (as specifically defined by the Code) of the Company. Based on information available to it, Zi does not believe that it is a controlled foreign corporation. However, there can be no assurance that Zi is not a controlled foreign corporation. The controlled foreign corporation rules are very complicated, and U.S. holders should consult their own financial advisor, legal counsel or accountant regarding the controlled foreign corporation rules and how these rules may impact their U.S. federal income tax situation. The Company does not currently meet certain NASDAQ bid requirements, and if Zi is unable to meet such requirements, its common shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ. The Company received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter dated January 30, 2008 stating that the bid price of Zi's common shares had closed below US$1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days. As a result, in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8) (the “Rule”), Zi was granted 180 calendar days, or until July 28, 2008, for the bid price of its common shares to close at US$1.00 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. As of July 28, 2008, the Company had not regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On August 1, 2008, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ (the “Determination Letter”) indicating that because the Company was not eligible for an additional 180 calendar day compliance period given that it did not meet the NASDAQ initial inclusion criteria set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c), trading of the Company’s common shares would be suspended at the opening of business on August 12, 2008 and a Form 25 would be filed with the SEC to remove the Company’s common shares from listing on the NASDAQ. On August 8, 2008, the Company notified NASDAQ of its intention to appeal NASDAQ’s determination to delist Zi’s common shares from the NASDAQ. The delisting of these shares was then postponed, pending the outcome of the appeal. On August 29, 2008, the Company submitted its plan to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement (the “Plan of Compliance”). Zi’s Plan of Compliance indicated, among other things, that it would undertake to effect a reverse share split by December 22, 2008 if it was not able to demonstrate compliance with the minimum bid price requirement in the near term. On September 18, 2008, the Company presented an oral argument at a hearing before a NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) to request a time period of 180 calendar days, pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4802(b), from the date of the Determination Letter to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. - 19 - On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ suspended the minimum bid price requirement for all NASDAQ-listed issuers, including the Company, through January 16, 2009. On December 23, 2008, NASDAQ extended this suspension of the minimum bid price requirement for all NASDAQ-listed issuers through April 20, 2009. On March 23, 2009, NASDAQ further extended this suspension of the minimum bid price requirement for all NASDAQ-listed issuers through July 20, 2009. As of October 16, 2008, the Panel had not yet issued a decision on the Company’s appeal. The Company’s appeal is stayed during the period from October 16, 2008 through July 20, 2009. Should the Company not have demonstrated compliance with the US$1.00 minimum bid price requirement by July 20, 2009, then Zi’s common shares may be delisted unless the Panel allows it to submit an updated Plan of Compliance. There can be no assurance that the Panel will permit Zi to submit an updated Plan of Compliance or that it will grant Zi additional time to achieve compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. Further, there can be no assurance that Zi will be able to meet the minimum bid requirement, even if granted additional time, and therefore, its shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ. The Company may not be successful in continuing to implement an inter-company royalty program in order to access cash in its Chinese Subsidiaries that is currently classified on its balance sheet as Restricted Cash. On April 7, 2008, Zi successfully transferred $2.1 million in cash held in Zi’s subsidiary in China to the Company. The $2.1 million cash is part of the $2.7 million reported in the Company’s audited financial statements as Restricted Cash as of December 31, 2007. The transfer of this cash resulted from the implementation of an inter-company royalty program which was developed in order to provide an ongoing mechanism to make all cash balances of the Company fully available to fund the day-to-day operations of Zi globally, while at the same time complying with international transfer pricing rules and regulations. The portion of the $2.7 million that was not transferred was partially used to pay required taxes to effect the transfer and the remainder was left in Zi’s Chinese subsidiary for working capital purposes. The continued implementation of the inter-company royalty program requires ongoing actions on the part of Zi. There can be no assurance that such continuing implementation will be successful. Zi may be contractually restricted from announcing the details of important licensing agreements. From time to time, Zi may publicly announce the signing of licensing agreements with its customers. However, to the extent permitted by securities law and regulatory obligations, Zi is sometimes contractually restricted from announcing many of the details of such licensing agreements, or even from announcing the existence of such agreements, or the name of the customer in such agreements. Failure to announce the existence of certain agreements, or failure to announce certain details of such agreements, including the name of the customer, may have a negative effect upon Zi’s share price. Certain of Zi’s significant customers may terminate their agreements with Zi in the event of a partial change of control of Zi. According to license agreements signed with certain of Zi’s significant customers, such customers have the right to terminate their license agreements with Zi in the event of a change of control of Zi, including a partial change of control. As a result, these termination rights may be applicable, even if the Arrangement with Nuance is not consummated, in the event that a partial change of control takes place. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 