Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those discussed in this section. The events described in the risk factors below, or any additional risk outside of those discussed below, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity if they actually occur. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report, including management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We began formal enterprise risk management (ERM) activities in 2005 under the leadership of our Chief Executive Officer and executive management. At the end of 2008 we formally appointed our property/casualty Chief Actuary as our enterprise-wide Chief Risk Officer (CRO). There is still no universally accepted ERM standard of practice and, as such, approaches take on different forms throughout the insurance industry. Our formal ERM effort is meant to create an atmosphere of risk-intelligent decision making and, in turn, add greater likelihood to the successful achievement of our corporate objectives. To achieve these goals, our ERM program focuses on the following priorities: • identifying, assessing and prioritizing potential risk events (using both quantitative and qualitative techniques); • cataloguing effective risk responses; • monitoring actual losses and learning from historical risk events; • educating and encouraging employees at all levels to consider the risks and rewards of the decisions they make; • managing corporate risks from an enterprise portfolio viewpoint; • defining risk tolerances, including aligning strategic and operational objectives within those tolerances, and enforcing subsequent decision standards and limits; and • planning for extreme adverse risk events. Our ERM policy statement establishes the framework, principles and guidelines for our ERM program so that aggregated risks are acceptable to us or any of our subsidiaries or affiliates, including the Erie Insurance Exchange. Leadership and direction of the program are the responsibility of the CRO, as are the reporting of risk information to executive management and the Board of Directors, advising decision makers from a risk perspective, and improving our overall risk-readiness. Our ERM committee consists of a cross-functional team of representatives from all major business functions as well as a technical team which is responsible for risk quantification and identification on an integrated basis. General day-to-day risk management responsibility lies within our functional divisions, ensuring execution by those most familiar with the related risks. In 2008 we also established a compliance department within our law division and appointed a Chief Compliance Officer specifically charged with monitoring regulatory, legal, and ethical requirements and ensuring that appropriate responses are initiated. An essential part of our ERM infrastructure is a stochastic modeling capability for our property/casualty insurance operations as well as the investment operations for the Property and Casualty Group. The modeling capability has been in use since 2003 and is a significant component in our quantification of insurance and investment risk. Model output is used to assess the variability of risk inherent in our operations and the sufficiency of enterprise capital levels given our defined tolerance for risk. The model further provides additional insights into capital management, strategic asset allocation of our investment portfolios, capital required for product lines sold by the enterprise, catastrophe exposure management and reinsurance purchasing and risk management strategy. As our ERM program continues to evolve, new techniques are being used at the enterprise and individual project levels to consider key risks not inherently quantifiable. ERM tools continue to be developed and modified to identify and assess risk on a consistent basis, providing management with more information to respond effectively and efficiently. Risk factors related to our business and relationships with third parties If the management fee rate paid by the Exchange is reduced, if there is a significant decrease in the amount of premiums written by the Exchange, or if the costs of providing services to the Exchange are not controlled, revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent upon management fees paid by the Exchange, which represent our principal source of revenue. Management fee revenue from the Exchange is calculated by multiplying the management fee rate by the direct 8 Table of Contents premiums written by the Exchange and the other members of the Property and Casualty Group, which are assumed by the Exchange under an intercompany pooling arrangement. Accordingly, any reduction in direct premiums written by the Property and Casualty Group would have a proportional negative effect on our revenues and net income. See the “Risk Factors relating to the business of the Property and Casualty Group” section, herein, for a discussion of risks impacting direct written premium. The management fee rate is determined by the Board of Directors and may not exceed 25% of the direct written premiums of the Property and Casualty Group. The Board of Directors sets the management fee rate each December for the following year. At their discretion, the rate can be changed at any time. The factors considered by the Board in setting the management fee rate include our financial position in relation to the Exchange and the long-term needs of the Exchange for capital and surplus to support its continued growth and competitiveness. If the Board of Directors determines that the management fee rate should be reduced, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Also, if the Exchange’s surplus were significantly reduced due to a severe decline in the value of the Exchange’s investments, the management fee rate could be reduced and our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Pursuant to the attorney-in-fact agreements with the policyholders of the Exchange, we are appointed to perform certain services, regardless of the cost to us of providing those services. These services relate to the sales, underwriting and issuance of policies on behalf of the Exchange. We would lose money or be less profitable if the cost of providing those services increases significantly. We are subject to credit risk from the Exchange because the management fees from the Exchange are not paid immediately when earned. Our property/casualty insurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk from the Exchange because the Exchange assumes a higher insurance risk under an intercompany reinsurance pooling arrangement than is proportional to its direct business contribution to the pool. We recognize management fees due from the Exchange as income when the premiums are written because at that time we have performed substantially all of the services we are required to perform, including sales, underwriting and policy issuance activities. However, such fees are not paid to us by the Exchange until the Exchange collects the premiums from policyholders. As a result, we hold receivables for management fees earned and due to us. Two of our wholly-owned property/casualty insurance subsidiaries, Erie Insurance Company and Erie Insurance Company of New York, are parties to the intercompany pooling arrangement with the Exchange. Under this pooling arrangement, our insurance subsidiaries cede 100% of their property/casualty underwriting business to the Exchange, which retrocedes 5% of the pooled business to Erie Insurance Company and 0.5% to Erie Insurance Company of New York. In 2008, approximately 83% of the pooled direct property/casualty business was originally generated by the Exchange and its subsidiary, while 94.5% of the pooled business is retroceded to the Exchange under the intercompany pooling arrangement. Accordingly, the Exchange assumes a higher insurance risk than is proportional to the insurance business it contributes to the pool. This poses a credit risk to our property/casualty subsidiaries participating in the pool as they retain the responsibility to their direct policyholders if the Exchange is unable to meet its reinsurance obligations. We hold receivables from the Exchange for costs we pay on the Exchange’s behalf and for reinsurance under the intercompany pooling arrangement. Our total receivable from the Exchange, including the management fee, reimbursable costs we paid on behalf of the Exchange and total amounts recoverable from the intercompany reinsurance pool, totaled $1.1 billion or 42.3% of our total assets at December 31, 2008. Our financial condition may suffer because of declines in the value of the securities held in our investment portfolio that constitute a significant portion of our assets. The continuing volatility in the financial markets and the ongoing economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Markets in the United States and around the world have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since mid-2007. Financial stress has affected the liquidity of the banking system and the financial system as a whole. During the fourth quarter of 2008 the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. Although the U.S. and foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear if these actions will be effective. The financial market volatility and the resulting economic impact could continue and it is possible it could be prolonged. 9 Table of Contents Although we continue to monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future market conditions or their impact on our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future fiscal periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, the continuing financial market volatility and economic downturn could have a material adverse affect on third parties with which we do business. We cannot predict the impact that this would have on our business or results of operations. Credit markets are in a particularly fragile state. Worsening economic data in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased market volatility. Extreme aversion to risk led to the lowest Treasury yields in more than fifty years. While our fixed income portfolio is well diversified, continued volatility in the credit markets could adversely affect the values and liquidity of our corporate and municipal bonds and our asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We do not hedge our exposure to interest rate risk as we have the ability to hold fixed income securities to maturity. Our investment strategy achieves a balanced maturity schedule in order to moderate investment income in the event of interest rate declines in a year in which a large amount of securities could be redeemed or mature. We do not hedge our exposure to credit risk as we control industry and issuer exposure in our diversified portfolio. At December 31, 2008, we had investments in equity securities of $88.6 million and investments in limited partnerships of $299.2 million, or 3.4% and 11.4% of total assets, respectively. In addition, we are obligated to invest up to an additional $90.8 million in limited partnerships, including private equity, real estate and fixed income partnership investments. Limited partnerships are less liquid and involve higher degrees of price risk than publicly traded securities. Limited partnerships, like publicly traded securities, have exposure to market volatility; but unlike publicly traded securities, cash flows and return expectations are less predictable. The primary basis for the valuation of limited partnership interests are financial statements prepared by the general partner. Because of the timing of the preparation and delivery of these financial statements, the use of the most recently available financial statements provided by the general partners result in a quarter delay in the inclusion of the limited partnership results in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Due to this delay, these financial statements do not reflect the volatility in market conditions experienced in the fourth quarter 2008. We expect additional deterioration to be reflected in the general partners’ year end financial statements, which we will receive in 2009, and such declines could be significant. All of our marketable securities are subject to market volatility. Our marketable securities have exposure to price risk and the volatility of the equity markets and general economic conditions. To the extent that future market volatility negatively impacts our investments, our financial condition will be negatively impacted. We review the investment portfolio on a continuous basis to evaluate positions that might have incurred other-than-temporary declines in value. The primary factors considered in our review of investment valuation include the extent and duration to which fair value is less than cost, historical operating performance and financial condition of the issuer, short- and long-term prospects of the issuer and its industry, specific events that occurred affecting the issuer and our ability and intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in value. If our policy for determining the recognition of impaired positions were different, our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and Statements of Operations could be significantly impacted. See also Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained within this report. Ineffective business relationships, including partnering and outsourcing, could affect our ability to compete. The inability to successfully build business relationships through partnering or outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our business. As we purchase technologies or services from others, we are reliant upon our partners’ employee skill, performance and ability to fulfill fundamental business functions. This places our business performance at risk. The severity of such risk would be commensurate with the level of aptitude of the external vendors’ knowledge and/or technology. If the business partner does not act within the intended limits of their authority or does not perform in a manner consistent with our business objectives, this could lead to ineffective operational performance. The potential also exists for an agency or policyholder to experience dissatisfaction with a vendor which may have an adverse effect on our business and/or agency relationships. 10 Table of Contents Risk factors relating to the business of the Property and Casualty Group The Property and Casualty Group faces significant competition from other regional and national insurance companies which may result in lower revenues. Additionally, we face the operational risk of potential loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. The Property and Casualty Group competes with regional and national property/casualty insurers including direct writers of insurance coverage. Many of these competitors are larger and many have greater financial, technical and operating resources. In addition, there is competition within each insurance agency that represents other carriers as well as the Property and Casualty Group. If we are unable to perform at industry leading levels with best practices in terms of quality, cost containment, and speed-to-market due to inferior operating resources and/or problems with external relationships, our business performance may suffer. As the business environment changes, if we are unable to adapt timely to emerging industry changes, or if our people do not conform to the changes, our business could be materially impacted. The property/casualty insurance industry is highly competitive on the basis of product, price and service. If competitors offer property/casualty products with more coverage and/or better service or offer lower rates, and we are unable to implement product or service improvements quickly enough to keep pace, the Property and Casualty Group’s ability to grow and renew its business may be adversely impacted. The internet continues to grow as a method of product distribution, and as a preferred method of product and price comparison. We compete against established ‘direct to consumer’ insurers as well as insurers that use a combination of agent and online distribution. We expect the competitors in this channel to grow. Failure to position our distribution technology effectively in light of these trends and changing demographics could inhibit our ability to grow and maintain our customer base. Our growth could also be adversely impacted by an inability to accommodate prospective customers based on lack of geographic agency presence. If the Erie Insurance Group is unable to keep pace with the rapidly developing technological advancements in the insurance industry or to replace its legacy policy administration systems, the ability of the Property and Casualty Group to compete effectively could be impaired. Technological development is necessary to reduce our cost and the Property and Casualty Group’s operating costs and to facilitate agents’ and policyholders’ ability to do business with the Property and Casualty Group. If the Erie Insurance Group is unable to keep pace with the advancements being made in technology, its ability to compete with other insurance companies who have advanced technological capabilities will be negatively affected. Further, if the Erie Insurance Group is unable to update or replace its legacy policy administration systems as they become obsolete or as emerging technology renders them competitively inefficient, the Property and Casualty Group’s competitive position would be adversely affected. We have an established business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal business operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. Advancements in technology continue to make it easier to store, share and transport information. A security breach of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation if confidential company or customer information were to be misappropriated from our systems. Cases where sensitive data is exposed or lost may lead to a loss in competitive advantage or lawsuits. We implement standard information security procedures, such as user authentication protocols and intrusion detection systems, to control data access and storage, including that which is available on the internet. Premium rates and reserves must be established for members of the Property and Casualty Group from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period. Our underwriting profitability could be adversely affected to the extent such premium rates or reserves are too low. One of the distinguishing features of the property and casualty insurance industry in general is that its products are priced before its costs are known, as premium rates are generally determined before losses are reported. Accordingly, premium rates must be established from forecasts of the ultimate costs expected to arise from risks underwritten during the policy period and may not prove to be adequate. Further, property and casualty insurers 11 Table of Contents establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses based upon estimates, and it is possible that the ultimate liability will exceed these estimates because of the future development of known losses, the existence of losses that have occurred but are currently unreported and larger than historical settlements on pending and unreported claims. The process of estimating reserves is inherently judgmental and can be influenced by factors that are subject to variation. If pricing or reserves established by a member of the Property and Casualty Group are not sufficient, our underwriting profitability may be adversely impacted. The financial performance of members of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected by severe weather conditions or other catastrophic losses, including terrorism. The Property and Casualty Group conducts business in only 11 states and the District of Columbia, primarily in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwestern and Southeastern portions of the United States. A substantial portion of this business is private passenger and commercial automobile, homeowners and workers compensation insurance in Ohio, Maryland, Virginia and particularly, Pennsylvania. As a result, a single catastrophe occurrence, destructive weather pattern, general economic trend, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition disproportionately affecting one or more of the states in which the Property and Casualty Group conducts substantial business could adversely affect the results of operations of members of the Property and Casualty Group. Common natural catastrophe events include hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, hail storms and severe winter weather. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes is inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property/casualty insurance operations, as well as a decrease in our shareholders’ equity, net income or revenue. The federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization and Extension Act of 2007 requires that some coverage for terrorist loss be offered by primary commercial property insurers and provides federal assistance for recovery of claims through 2014. While the Property and Casualty Group is exposed to terrorism losses in commercial lines and workers compensation, these lines are afforded a limited backstop above insurer deductibles for acts of terrorism under this federal program. The Property and Casualty Group has no personal lines terrorist coverage in place. The Property and Casualty Group could incur large net losses if future terrorist attacks occur. The Property and Casualty Group maintains a property catastrophe reinsurance treaty that was renewed effective January 1, 2009 that provides coverage of 95% of a loss up to $400 million in excess of the Property and Casualty Group’s loss retention of $450 million per occurrence. This treaty excludes losses from acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, catastrophe reinsurance may prove inadequate if a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit which could adversely affect our underwriting profitability. The Property and Casualty Group depends on independent insurance agents, which exposes the Property and Casualty Group to risks not applicable to companies with dedicated agents or other forms of distribution. The Property and Casualty Group markets and sells its insurance products through independent, non-exclusive agencies. These agencies are not obligated to sell only the Property and Casualty Group’s insurance products, and generally they also sell competitors’ insurance products. As a result, the Property and Casualty Group’s business depends in large part on the marketing and sales efforts of these agencies. To the extent these agencies’ marketing efforts cannot be maintained at their current levels of volume or they bind the Property and Casualty Group to unacceptable insurance risks, fail to comply with established underwriting guidelines or otherwise improperly market the Property and Casualty Group’s products, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. Also, to the extent these agencies place business with competing insurers due to compensation arrangements, product differences, price differences, ease of doing business or other reasons, the results of operations of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and increasing the number of agencies in our independent agent distribution system, the results of operations of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. To the extent that business migrates to a delivery system other than independent agencies because of changing consumer preferences, the business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. Also, to the extent the agencies choose to place significant portions or all of their business with competing insurance companies, the results of operations and business of the Property and Casualty Group could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If there were a failure to maintain a commercially acceptable financial strength rating, the Property and Casualty Group’s competitive position in the insurance industry would be adversely affected. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and may be expected to have an effect on an insurance company’s sales. Higher ratings generally indicate greater financial stability and a stronger ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors that they believe are relevant to policyholders. Currently the Property and Casualty Group’s pooled AM Best rating is an A+ (“superior”). A significant future downgrade in this or other ratings would reduce the competitive position of the Property and Casualty Group making it more difficult to attract profitable business in the highly competitive property/casualty insurance market. Changes in applicable insurance laws, regulations or changes in the way regulators administer those laws or regulations could adversely change the Property and Casualty Group’s operating environment and increase its exposure to loss or put it at a competitive disadvantage. Property and casualty insurers are subject to extensive supervision in the states in which they do business. This regulatory oversight includes, by way of example, matters relating to licensing and examination, rate setting, market conduct, policy forms, limitations on the nature and amount of certain investments, claims practices, mandated participation in involuntary markets and guaranty funds, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, transactions between affiliates and restrictions on underwriting standards. Such regulation and supervision are primarily for the benefit and protection of policyholders and not for the benefit of shareholders. For instance, members of the Property and Casualty Group are subject to involuntary participation in specified markets in various states in which it operates, and the rate levels the Property and Casualty Group is permitted to charge do not always correspond with the underlying costs associated with the coverage issued. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry, federal initiatives, such as federal terrorism backstop legislation, from time-to-time, also can impact the insurance industry. In addition to specific insurance regulation, we must also comply with other regulatory, legal and ethical requirements relating to the general operation of a business. In 2008, we appointed a Chief Compliance Officer to oversee insurance regulations as well as other compliance issues. Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented executives, key managers and employees is critical to our success. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key management. The loss of the services and leadership of certain key officers and the failure to attract, motivate and develop talented new executives and managers could prevent us from successfully communicating, implementing and executing business strategies, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain a talented employee base. The inability to staff all functions of our business with employees possessing the appropriate technical expertise could have an adverse effect on our business performance. Staffing appropriately skilled employees for the deployment and maintenance of information technology systems and the appropriate handling of claims and rendering of disciplined underwriting, is critical to the success of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 