Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Risks This report includes “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or “hopes,” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. For example, this section contains numerous forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this report are made based on management’s current expectations and estimates, which involve risks and uncertainties, including those described in the following paragraphs. Among these factors are the following: · Demand for Company products may change. · New products may not be developed to satisfy changes in consumer demands. · Failure to protect intellectual property rights could adversely affect future performance and growth. · Production time and the overall cost of products could increase if any of the primary suppliers are lost or if any primary supplier increased the prices of raw materials. · Fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict future performance. · The Company may not be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough if sales decline. · The Company maintains a significant investment in inventories in anticipation of future sales. · Future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key management and qualified technical and sales personnel. · The Company faces risks from international sales and currency fluctuations. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to be materially different from those in the forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements in this report. We assume no obligation to update such information. Demand for Company products may change: Over the past eight fiscal quarters, the Company has experienced increased demand for its Balancer products in North America. These increases are attributed primarily to an improving economy in North America. The conditions and circumstances could change in future periods and as a result demand for the Company’s products could decline. Management is responding to these risks in two ways. First, it appears there is a significant portion of the marketplace that is not using the automatic balancing products of the Company or any of its competitors. The Company will therefore continue to devote part of its future R&D efforts toward developing products that will both broaden the scope of Balancing products offered to the 9 current customer base. Second, there are uses for the Company’s Balancer products in industries other than those in the Company’s historic customer base. Management is devoting a significant portion of its time to identify these markets and educate those markets on the value of those products within their operations. The laser light-scatter products of the Measurement segment have relied heavily upon sales to disk drive and silicon wafer manufacturers. Conditions in those markets adversely affected sales beginning in Fiscal 1999 and those poor conditions continued into Fiscal 2004 and consequently, demand for drives fell over these periods. As the operations of those companies suffered, they in turn reduced capital spending resulting in minimal demand for and sporadic sales of the Company’s laser light-scatter products. Industry forecasts are for improving conditions, and the Company experienced increasing sales in Fiscal 2005 and 2006 to those industries. However, the long-term impact on demand for the Company’s surface Measurement products cannot be predicted with any certainty. The semiconductor industry has also faced a down cycle over the past few fiscal years. Beginning in Fiscal 2002, the semiconductor industry experienced backlog cancellations, resulting in slower revenue growth and these conditions continued into Fiscal 2004. The result is similar to disk drive manufacturers in that capital spending has declined significantly and consequently so has demand for and sales of the Company’s wafer products. The Company experienced increasing sales in Fiscal 2006 to those industries. However, the long-term impact on demand for the Company’s wafer products cannot be predicted with any certainty. Management will continue to market these products to these historic markets as it appears no other technology has been introduced that would make the laser light-scatter products technologically obsolete. There is the belief that once market conditions improve in the disk drive and silicon wafer markets, demand for the Company’s products and technology will increase although most likely not to historic levels. Also, management believes there are other uses for the Company’s laser light scatter technology and continues to evaluate R&D efforts to develop new products and introduce them to the marketplace. New products may not be developed to satisfy changes in consumer demands: The failure to develop new technologies, or react to changes in existing technologies, could materially delay development of new products, which could result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to competitors. Financial performance depends on the ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. New product opportunities may not be identified and developed and brought to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or a fundamental shift in technologies in the product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position within historic industries. Failure to protect intellectual property rights could adversely affect future performance and growth: Failure to protect existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or paying other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. The Company relies on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect such technologies. There is no assurance any of the Company’s U.S. patents will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to other companies. Production time and the overall cost of products could increase if any of the primary suppliers are lost or if a primary supplier increased the prices of raw materials: Manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis. The results of operations could be adversely affected if adequate supplies of raw materials cannot be obtained in a timely manner or if the costs of raw materials increased significantly. Fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict future performance: Quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond management’s control. As a result of quarterly operating fluctuations, it is important to realize quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. 10 The Company may not be able to reduce operating costs quickly enough if sales decline: Operating expenses are generally fixed in nature and largely based on anticipated sales. However, should future sales decline significantly and rapidly, there is no guarantee management could take actions that would further reduce operating expenses in either a timely manner or without seriously impacting the operations of the Company. The Company maintains a significant investment in inventories in anticipation of future sales: The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage by shipping product to its customers more rapidly than its competitors. As a result, the Company has a significant investment in inventories. These inventories are recorded using the lower-of-cost or market method, which requires management to make certain estimates. Management evaluates the recorded inventory values based on customer demand, market trends and expected future sales and changes these estimates accordingly. A significant shortfall of sales may result in carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods and raw materials thereby increasing the risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs. As a result, the Company may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write-downs. Future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key management and qualified technical and sales personnel: Future success depends on the efforts and continued services of key management, technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and there is no assurance key technical and sales personnel can be retained nor assurances there will be the ability to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as required. There is also no guarantee key employees will not leave and subsequently compete against the Company. The inability to retain key personnel could adversely impact the business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces risks from international sales and currency fluctuations: The Company markets and sells its products worldwide and international sales have accounted for and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of future revenue. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: the imposition of governmental controls; trade restrictions; difficulty in collecting receivables; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; political and economic instability; general economic conditions; and fluctuations in foreign currencies. No assurances can be given these factors will not have a material adverse effect on future international sales and operations and, consequently, on business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 