ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. However, these are the risks our management believes are material. If any of the following risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. This report contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those listed below and elsewhere in this report, which, among others, should be considered in evaluating our future performance. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition Global financial upheaval and credit restrictions may have a negative impact on operations. In the year ended December 31, 2011, significant disruptions in the world financial and credit markets continued, including those in China, which have continued through the filing of this report. These events have been prolifically reported in the media. Should there be a catastrophic collapse of the global financial structure or continued downturns in China, we could lose our asset base and daily business operations, which could result in us being unable to operate the Company. Our Healthcare Services business is dependent on foreign residents in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangzhou for the majority of its patients. Should foreign businesses significantly reduce their China operations, our hospitals could sustain a reduction in business, which may result in losses. To a lesser extent, our hospitals are dependent on affluent Chinese citizens for a portion of their patients. Should a slowdown in the Chinese economy continue or worsen, our hospitals could sustain a reduction in business which may result in losses. The Medical Products Business of our joint venture, CML is somewhat dependent upon credit availability for the opening of bid and performance bonds and the extension of credit terms to Chinese customers through government-backed financing packages. The Medical Products Business has experienced and expects to continue to experience delays in renewal of credit facilities as they expire and/or delays or denials in approvals of new credit facilities similar in nature to existing facilities. Should there be a lack of sufficient credit availability, it may result in loss of bidding opportunities, delays in contract execution or cancellation of contracts. 9 Table of Contents Our business, including our ongoing expansion projects, is capital intensive and we may not be able to access the capital markets or other sources of financing when we would like to raise capital. We may not be able to raise adequate capital to complete some or all of our business strategies, including our ongoing expansion projects, or to react rapidly to changes in technology, products, services or the competitive landscape. Healthcare service and medical product providers in China often face high capital requirements in order to take advantage of new market opportunities, respond to rigorous competitive pressures and react quickly to changes in technology. Many of our competitors are committing substantial capital and, in many instances, are forming alliances to acquire or maintain market leadership. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. In particular, our strategy of expanding our healthcare facilities and services includes the establishment and maintenance of healthcare facilities, which require particularly significant capital. In addition, CML plans to expand its distribution capabilities for medical products. In the absence of sufficient available capital, we would be unable to establish or maintain healthcare facilities as planned, and the joint venture would be unable to expand its distribution business as planned. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to fund our capital expenditures, ongoing operations and indebtedness obligations. Our ability to service our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend in part on our ability to generate cash flow. Our ability to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: • our future operating performance; • the demand for our services and products; • general economic conditions both in China and elsewhere and conditions affecting suppliers, customers and patients; • competition; and • legal and regulatory factors affecting us and our business, including exchange rate fluctuations. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to repay indebtedness, operate our business, respond to competition, pursue our growth strategy which is capital intensive and includes our ongoing expansion projects, or otherwise meet cash requirements. If we fail to manage our growth or maintain adequate internal accounting, disclosure and other controls, we would lose the ability to manage our business effectively and/or experience errors or information lapses affecting public reporting. We have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years and continue to explore ways to extend our service and product offerings. Our growth may place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. Our ability to successfully offer services and provide products requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from senior management. We will need to modify and improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and other internal control and compliance procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. If we are unable to manage our growth and improve our controls, systems and procedures, they may become ineffective, we may be unable to operate efficiently and we may lose the ability to manage many other aspects of our business effectively and/or experience errors or information lapses affecting public reporting. 10 Table of Contents A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. If we are not successful in discovering and eliminating weaknesses in internal controls, we will lose the ability to manage our business effectively. If we lost the services of our key personnel, our leadership, expertise, experience, business relationships, strategic and operational planning and other important business attributes would be diminished. Our success to a large extent depends upon the continued services of certain executive officers, particularly Roberta Lipson, our Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence Pemble, our Chief Operating Officer and Treasurer (as well as the chief financial officer of CML), Elyse Beth Silverberg, our Executive Vice President and Secretary (as well as the chief operating officer of CML) and Robert C. Low, our Senior Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of Ms. Lipson, Mr. Pemble, Ms. Silverberg and Mr. Low containing non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality provisions. The loss of service of any of our key employees could diminish our leadership, expertise, experience, business relationships, strategic and operating planning and other important business attributes, thus materially harming our business. In addition, the devotion of certain executives of time and effort to CML may reduce the services they are able to devote to the business of the Company. Our business could be adversely affected by inflation or foreign currency fluctuation. Because we receive 100% of our revenue and generate approximately 95% of our expenses within China, we have foreign currency exchange risk. The Chinese currency (RMB) is not freely traded and is closely controlled by the Chinese Government. The U.S. dollar (USD) has experienced volatility in world markets recently. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the RMB appreciated approximately 5.3% against the USD, resulting in an exchange gain of $670,000. As part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. Our sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of the RMB to the USD at December 31, 2011, indicated that if the USD uniformly increased in value by 10% relative to the RMB, we would have experienced a 22% decrease in net income. Conversely, a 10% increase in the value of the RMB relative to the USD at December 31, 2011, would have resulted in a 27% increase in net income. Based on the Consumer Price Index, for the year ended December 31, 2011, inflation in China was 5.4% and inflation in the United States was 3.2%. The average annual rate of inflation over the three-year period from 2009 to 2011 was 2.7% in China and 1.5% in the United States. We have entered into loan arrangements that could impair our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our business obligations. The Company has entered into financings with certain institutions pursuant to which we incurred indebtedness, which will require principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $24 million, including $13 million of Tranche C Convertible Notes to a subsidiary of J. P. Morgan Chase & Co (JPM). Our indebtedness could affect our future operations, for example by: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business purposes; 11 Table of Contents • making it more difficult for us to satisfy all of our debt obligations, thereby increasing the risk of triggering a cross-default provision; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns or other adverse developments relative to less leveraged competitors; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes in the future; and • increasing our cost of borrowing to satisfy business needs. The Tranche C Notes mature in 2017 and are convertible by the holder at any time and will be automatically converted upon the opening of two proposed new and/or expanded hospitals in China (the “JV Hospitals”), subject to compliance with certain financing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tranche C Notes would be automatically converted after the earlier of 12 months having elapsed following commencement of operations at either of the JV Hospitals or either of the JV Hospitals achieving break-even earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for any 12-month period ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter, subject to compliance with certain financing provisions. So long as we fail to meet the foregoing conditions to automatic conversion, the notes would remain outstanding, ultimately requiring repayment in 2017 or earlier upon any acceleration. We currently are unable and may not in the future be able to draw down under our pre-existing loan facilities, which will be required for many of our expansion plans. In 2007 and 2008, we entered into two US Dollar loan facilities in the amount of $25 million and $20 million with International Finance Corporation (IFC) and DEG-Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), respectively, for the financing of expansion projects in China. The conditions to disbursement to these loan facilities have never been met and may never be met and the applicable lender has a right to terminate its commitment, with DEG having notified us of such effective termination. In order to draw under the IFC facility, we would have to amend the terms of that facility with respect to project scope, formation of joint venture entities (such entities have yet to be approved to construct, equip and operate their respective new Joint Venture Hospitals), collateral package, timing of disbursements (and extension of deadlines which have already passed) and other related provisions. However, we experienced delays in the development timeline and certain changes in project scope for the proposed healthcare facilities was necessary because of fluctuations and uncertainties in the real estate markets in China resulting from the global economic downturn and, as a result, the process to formally approve the two joint ventures has taken longer than originally anticipated. In July 2010, however, we received formal approval of the new joint venture for the Beijing expansion project from the Chinese authorities and are currently in discussions with IFC to amend its loan facility in order to draw thereunder. There can be no assurances that we will be able to amend the IFC facility on terms acceptable to us and IFC, which failure could have a material adverse effect on ability to complete all of our on going expansion projects as scheduled. We may be unable to service or refinance our debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to reduce or refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future financial and operating performance. To a certain extent, our future performance will be affected by the impact of general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt to avoid defaulting on our debt obligations or to meet other business needs. A refinancing of any 12 Table of Contents of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates, could require us to comply with more onerous covenants that further restrict our business operations, could be restricted by another of our debt instruments outstanding, or refinancing opportunities may not be available at all. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. The agreements relating to our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our (and our subsidiaries’) ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends and management fees; • create or permit certain liens; • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur certain expenditures; and • enter into new businesses. The terms of our agreements with JPM impose covenants that if not complied with could result in claims for damages and the acceleration of the Tranche C Notes, which we may be unable to convert to our common stock. We entered into an investor rights agreement with JPM, pursuant to which, until the fifth anniversary of the date of such agreement (which anniversary is November 13, 2012), JPM will be entitled to certain financial information on an ongoing basis, access to our books and records, assurances of our management continuity, limitations on the use of proceeds to the JV Hospitals and other prescribed purposes, maintenance of our insurance policies, assurances as to certain terms of any new joint ventures entered into by us in connection with the JV Hospitals, cross defaults with certain other debt, various limitations on future issuances of equity securities by us, a right of first refusal as to 20% of certain future equity securities issuances (which would apply as to the anticipated final closing under the Stock Purchase Agreement discussed below), consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio financial covenants and other covenants and conditions. In the event that we fail to satisfy any of the covenants contained in the investor rights agreement, we may face claims for damages and the inability to automatically convert the Tranche C Notes to our common stock. If requisite pending governmental approvals are not achieved, the Chindex Medical Limited joint venture may not be able to receive dividends from certain businesses included in the joint venture or proceeds of any sale of that portion of the joint venture’s business, which would adversely affect the joint venture and us. Effective on December 31, 2010, the Company and Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd (“FosunPharma”) and its subsidiary Fosun Industrial Co., Limited (“Fosun Industrial” and, with Fosun Pharmaceutical, the “Fosun Entities”) and certain of their respective subsidiaries formed a joint venture created and consolidated under CML, a Hong Kong company, for the purpose of engaging in (i) the marketing, distribution and servicing of medical equipment in China and Hong Kong (except that sales and 13 Table of Contents distribution related activities in relation to sales and servicing in China and Hong Kong may take place in other jurisdictions) and (ii) the Medical Products Business, including our former Medical Products division, which was transferred to the joint venture effective December 31, 2010. As previously disclosed, the Company, a subsidiary of the Company and CML previously entered into the Formation Agreement (the “Formation Agreement”) dated December 28, 2010 with FosunPharma and certain of its subsidiaries. The Formation Agreement provides for the formation and investiture of CML by the Company and the Fosun Entities in two separate closings. On December 31, 2010, the initial closing (the “Initial Closing”) under the Formation Agreement took place pursuant to which CML is now 51%-owned by FosunPharma and 49%-owned by the Company. At the Initial Closing, FosunPharma purchased its 51% interest in CML for a secured promissory note in the amount of $20,000,000. The contribution and investiture to CML of the portion of the Business to be contributed by FosunPharma was subject to the receipt of requisite governmental approvals and other closing conditions. On June 24, 2011, upon the issuance of certain amended business licenses from the Chinese government, CML became the holder of legal title to the FosunPharma-contributed businesses, and on August 30, 2011, CML paid to FosunPharma the purchase price for the FosunPharma-contributed businesses. Notwithstanding this transfer and payment, the registration with and approval of Shanghai Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) is required in order for CML to obtain certain rights and benefits as shareholder of such businesses, including the right to receive dividends declared by the FosunPharma-contributed businesses or the proceeds of any sale of a company included in the FosunPharma-contributed businesses. Until such approval is obtained, CML will be entitled to such benefits on a contractual basis under the entrustment arrangement and other agreements relating to the joint venture. Upon the completion of the registration with and approval of SAFE, which will entitle CML to receive dividends from and proceeds of any sale of the FosunPharma-contributed businesses, the formal closing (the “Final Closing”) with respect to the investiture of the FosunPharma-contributed businesses will occur and the entrustment arrangement will terminate. There can be no assurances that such registration and approval will be received. If such registration and approval are not received, CML will have to rely on enforcement of contractual rights to obtain the benefit of certain economic rights with respect to the FosunPharma-contributed businesses that normally are available to shareholders as a matter of law. See “There can be no assurances that all of the terms of the CML joint venture formation documents will be enforceable.” The inability of CML to enforce such contractual right would adversely affect CML, thereby also adversely affecting the Company. At the Initial Closing, the Company and a subsidiary of CML entered into a Services Agreement (the “Services Agreement”). In connection with the Services Agreement, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Elyse Beth Silverberg, and its Chief Operating Officer, Lawrence Pemble, serve as the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of, and devote substantial time and effort to, CML. The Services Agreement also provides for the performance of such services by such executives as well as for the performance of other services to CML by other current Company employees. The Services Agreement further provides for payments to the Company for such services and related arrangements between the parties. In connection with the Services Agreement, the Company will continue to compensate such executives and certain such employees, which compensation is expected to be substantially offset by such payments from Chindex Medical. Although the Company believes that the services performed by such Company employees replicate such services they performed prior to the formation of the joint venture, there can be no assurances that the devotion of such time and effort will not adversely affect the Company. Our Chindex Medical Limited joint venture with FosunPharma involves numerous risks. CML is focused on the pre-existing operations of our former Medical Products Division as well as the businesses contributed to the joint venture by FosunPharma. Those businesses contributed by FosunPharma include research and development and manufacturing in the areas of blood transfusion consumables and viral inactivation systems, surgical consumables and dental products and materials. The joint venture involves the integration of different businesses and business models from us and FosunPharma that previously operated independently and that may not produce the intended synergies. This has been and will continue to be a complex and time-consuming process. 14 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits of the joint venture. CML and future joint ventures or acquisitions that we complete may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in developing and expanding the business of CML, funding any future capital contributions to the business and exercising influence over the management and activities of the joint venture, which is controlled by FosunPharma. In addition, we may encounter quality control concerns regarding CML products and services and potential conflicts of interest with the joint venture and FosunPharma, our joint venture partner. Also, we could be disadvantaged in the event of disputes and controversies with our joint venture partner, since they are a significant stockholder of the Company. CML is also subject to, and exposes us to, various additional risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. These risks include the following: • we currently own 49% of the total equity interests in CML, so there are certain decisions affecting the business of CML that we cannot control or influence; • difficulties associated with preserving relationships with our customers, partners and vendors; • difficulties in retaining and integrating key sales, marketing and other personnel, the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss; • risks that any technology, business plan or business model developed by CML may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures, including as required under applicable U.S. securities laws and accounting requirements; • the divergence of our interests from FosunPharma’s interests in the future, disagreements with FosunPharma on ongoing operational activities, or the amount, timing or nature of further investments in CML; • the terms of our joint venture arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable to us; • we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the joint venture; and • CML profits and cash flows may prove inadequate to fund cash dividends from CML to the joint venture partners. If CML is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We will be obligated to issue 1,057,425 shares of common stock at $15 per share in the event of the final asset vesting of the CML joint venture, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders to the extent that the current market price is above such price. One agreement entered into in connection with the joint venture was a stock purchase agreement (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”) dated June 14, 2010, among the Company and the Fosun Entities. The Stock Purchase Agreement was approved by the Company’s board of directors on June 16, 2010. Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, we will be obligated to issue 1,057,425 shares of common stock at $15 per share at the Final Closing, which shares would represent approximately five percent of the outstanding shares of the Company. In the event that the market price of the common stock at the time of such issuance is greater than $15 per share, then holders of outstanding shares would experience immediate dilution, notwithstanding that the market price of the common stock at the time the Company approved the Stock Purchase Agreement was approximately $11.80, making the price per share a significant premium to market at that time. There can be no assurances that all of the terms of the CML joint venture formation documents will be enforceable. Another agreement entered into in connection with the CML joint venture was an entrustment agreement (the “Entrustment Agreement”) among the Company, a subsidiary of CML, FosunPharma and a subsidiary of FosunPharma, which would allow for the management and operation of the entire Business pending the final contribution and investiture by FosunPharma into CML at the Final Closing. The Entrustment Agreement would entrust such management and operation to a subsidiary of the Company from the date thereof until the Final Closing, giving such subsidiary full power and authority over the entire Business. For such services, such Chindex subsidiary would be reimbursable based on profitability. There can be no assurance that the specific terms of any agreement entered into in connection with the CML joint venture, including in particular the Entrustment Agreement, will be enforceable in whole or in part. Risks Relating to our Healthcare Services Business If we do not attract and retain qualified physicians, administrators or other hospital personnel, our hospital operations would be adversely affected. The United Family Healthcare network is a pioneering, international standard healthcare organization, whose mission is to provide comprehensive and integrated healthcare services in a warm and caring patient and family service-oriented environment to the largest urban centers in China. Our success in operating our hospitals and clinics will be, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of physicians on the medical staff of these hospitals and clinics and our ability to maintain good relations with our physicians. As we offer international standard healthcare at our hospitals and clinics, we are further dependent on attracting a limited number of qualified Western healthcare professionals, not all of whom have long-term relationships with China or intend to remain in China for extended periods of time. Physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is heavily regulated and failure to comply with those regulations could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. Healthcare providers in China, as in most other populous countries, are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the national and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to: licensing; the conduct of operations; the relationships among hospitals and their affiliated providers; the ownership of facilities; the addition of facilities and services; confidentiality, maintenance and security 16 Table of Contents issues associated with medical records; billing for services; and prices for services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate. In addition, further healthcare legislative reform is likely, and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in the event we do not comply or if the cost of compliance is expensive. The above list of certain regulated areas is not exhaustive and it is not possible to anticipate the exact nature of future healthcare legislative reform in China. Depending on the priorities determined by the Chinese Ministry of Health, the political climate at any given time, the continued development of the Chinese healthcare system and many other factors, future legislative reforms may be highly diverse, including stringent infection control policies, improved rural healthcare facilities, introduction of health insurance policies, regulation of reimbursement rates for healthcare services, increased regulation of the distribution of pharmaceuticals and numerous other policy matters. Consequently, the implications of these future reforms could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. Our operations could be adversely affected by the high cost of malpractice insurance. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the U.S. have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant legal costs. While similar lawsuits are not common in China, to protect us from the cost of any such claims, we generally maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. We depend on information systems, which if not implemented and maintained, could adversely affect our operations. Our healthcare services business is dependent on effective information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring, utilization and other cost factors, supporting our healthcare management techniques, processing billing and providing data to regulators. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely impacted. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet operational needs. Moreover, the proposed expansion of facilities and similar activities requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities throughout our healthcare services operations. Upgrades, expansions of capabilities, and other potential system-wide improvements in information systems may require large capital expenditures. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, finance, maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational disruptions, which could adversely affect our prospects or results of operations. Our operations face competition that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Beijing, Shanghai Tianjin and Guangzhou healthcare facilities compete with a large number and variety of healthcare facilities in their respective markets. There are numerous Chinese hospitals, many with VIP wards catering to the affluent Chinese market, available to the general populace, as well as international clinics serving the expatriate business, diplomatic community and affluent Chinese population. There can be no assurance that these or other clinics, hospitals or other facilities will not commence or expand such operations, which would increase their competitive position and potentially erode our market position. Further, there can be no assurance that a qualified Western or other healthcare organization, having greater resources in the provision or management of healthcare services, will not decide to begin operations similar to those being conducted by us in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin or Guangzhou. 17 Table of Contents Expansion of healthcare services to reach the Chinese population depends to some extent on the development of insurance products that are not available now. Medical insurance is not generally available too much of the Chinese population and reimbursement under Chinese government healthcare coverage is not allowed to our healthcare network. Consequently, visits to our hospital facilities by the local population normally must be paid for in cash. This limitation may impede the attractiveness of our services as compared to services for which government benefits are allowed, especially during challenging economic circumstances. Our expansion plans call for increasing the number of local Chinese who use our facilities. If we are not able to achieve this increase, our ability to continue to grow our business would be materially adversely affected. Our loan from the IFC places restrictions on the conduct of our healthcare services business. The existing loan from the IFC to BJU and SHU, which is guaranteed by the parent company, requires us to achieve specified liquidity and coverage ratios and meet other operating requirements in order for us to conduct certain transactions in our healthcare services business. The terms of our indebtedness with the IFC impose significant restrictions on our business. The indentures governing our outstanding notes and the agreement governing our loan contain various covenants that limit the ability of our hospitals to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends and management fees; • create or permit certain liens; • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur certain expenditures; and • enter into new businesses. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The loan agreement with the IFC also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control such as business conditions in China. Our failure to maintain applicable financial ratios, in certain circumstances, would limit or prevent us from making payments from the hospitals to the parent company and would otherwise limit the hospitals’ flexibility in financial matters. Timing of revenues due to seasonality and fluctuations in financial performance vary from quarter to quarter and are not necessarily indicative of our performance over longer periods. Our revenue is dependent on seasonal fluctuations related to epidemiology factors and the lifestyles of the expatriate community. For example, many expatriate families traditionally take annual home leave outside of China during the summer months. As a result of these factors impacting the timing of revenues, our operating results have varied and are expected to continue to vary from period to period and year to year. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to complete our ongoing expansion projects on budget if at all, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and proposed expansion. The JPM, IFC and other financings were designed to provide a portion of required funds for our proposed new and/or expanded healthcare facility projects. As presently budgeted, such projects will require more financing than we currently have obtained. Such projects are in various early stages and will take significant time to complete, which completion cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing, including draws under the IFC facility (or additional, alternative or replacement facilities), our budgeted costs are incorrect or other factors, such as Chinese government regulations or global economic circumstances for example, which interfere with our ability to complete such projects, we may not be able to complete the projects as planned or at all, which would result in the incurrence of debt and other costs that are not necessarily offset by the anticipated revenues from the projects. In addition, obtaining additional financing and completing the projects may be required to automatically convert the Tranche C Notes. If such financing cannot be obtained and the projects cannot be completed, the Tranche C Notes would remain outstanding, ultimately requiring repayment which may interfere with future borrowing. Our proposed healthcare facilities expansion plans and related capital expenditures could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our long-term expansion plans include targeted expansion into largely Chinese populated markets through the development of additional United Family facilities in the more affluent Chinese cities such as Chengdu, Ningbo, Qingdao, and others as well as additional facilities in our existing markets of Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangzhou. Our plans also include the continued expansion of services in existing facilities and the opening of additional affiliated satellite clinics and hospitals. Market expansion projects are underway in each geographic market. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined in connection with this expansion plan. The profitability or success of future healthcare facilities and similar capital projects and investments are subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments resulting in lower investment interest or earnings, offset income to the extent resulting in net losses, reduce our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, result in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, result in higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Commencement of facility construction is subject to governmental approval and permitting processes, which could materially affect the ultimate cost and timing of construction. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various projects or capital improvements at our facilities, including: • delays in mandatory governmental approvals; • additional land or facilities acquisition costs; • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor; • unforeseen changes in design or delays in construction permits; • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site; and 19 Table of Contents • national or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes. In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if those factors or our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Should healthcare facility projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to the inability to obtain necessary permits or other governmental approvals or other unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to CML’s Medical Products Business Future Losses in the Medical Products Business. We experienced losses after corporate allocations in our Medical Products division over most of five fiscal years prior to the formation of the joint venture due to a variety of factors, including delays in product registration approvals from the Chinese government, delays in renegotiating the trade agreements between the United States and China allowing the use of U.S. Export-Import Bank backed financings and other factors. Although the results of operations of the business comprising that division (the “Medical Products Business”) were transferred to the CML joint venture effective December 31, 2010, are deconsolidated from our financial statements, are treated under the equity method of accounting, and are retained by us only on a 49% equity interest basis (to be supplemented with businesses from FosunPharma as proposed at the Final Closing relating to the joint venture), there can be no assurance that we will not experience losses in the future from the operation of that business, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and us generally. The Medical Products Business depends on relations with suppliers and would be adversely affected by the termination of arrangements with, or shortage or loss of any significant product line from them. The Medical Products Business relies on a limited number of suppliers that account for a significant portion of its revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the nine-months ended December 31, 2010 and year ended March 31, 2010, Siemens Medical Solutions (Siemens) represented 36%, 64% and 42% of product revenue, respectively. Although a substantial number of relationships with that business’ capital equipment suppliers, including Siemens, have been pursuant to exclusive contracts, the relationships are based substantially on specific sales quotas and mutual satisfaction in addition to the other terms of the contractual arrangements. The agreement with Siemens was renewed by CML with secondary financial guarantees provided by FosunPharma (for 51% of CML liability) and the Company (for 49% of CML liability) on December 31, 2011 for a 12-month term and is expected to be renewed in the future with sales quotas established annually. Agreements with other suppliers have been, or are expected to be, renewed by CML under similar terms requiring parent investor guarantees by FosunPharma and the Company to secure trade payment terms. The agreement with Siemens and contracts with other suppliers often contain short-term cancellation provisions permitting the contracts to be terminated, substantially amended on short notice (from 30 days to six months), minimum sales quantity requirements or targets and provisions triggering termination upon the occurrence of certain events. From time to time, suppliers terminate or revise these distribution arrangements. There can be no assurance that cancellations of, or other material adverse effects on, such agreements will not occur. There can be no assurance that suppliers will not elect to change their method of distribution into the Chinese marketplace to a form that does not use the services of CML. The Medical Products Business depends to some extent on suppliers continuing to improve their products and introduce new models. If a supplier fails to upgrade its product line as quickly as competitive manufacturers have done, our revenues could be adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents The market for medical equipment in China is highly competitive and buyers are very interested in purchasing the latest technology. In operating under exclusive agreements with certain manufacturers, the Medical Products Business is tied to a single source in each product area and is dependent on the acceptance of the manufacturers’ products in the market place. If there is a delay in the introduction of new products or technology, this could influence buyers to choose competitive offerings from other sources. In addition, if the new product or technology fails to operate properly after product launch, results may suffer due to delays caused by the time required for the manufacturer to correct the initial product defects. The sales of the Medical Products Business depend to some extent on suppliers maintaining the required product registrations required to sell their products in China. If a supplier fails to maintain or renew such product registrations in a timely manner, the joint venture would be unable to sell its products. The Chinese government requires all medical devices to be registered for sale by the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) and other Chinese government organizations. For the products of the Medical Products Business, some of these registrations are handled by such business and some of them are handled by the original equipment manufacturer. If the manufacturers are not timely with their registrations or let them expire prior to renewal, CML would be unable to sell its products. Timing of revenues and fluctuations in financial performance vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are not necessarily indicative of our performance over longer periods. Sales of capital equipment often require protracted sales efforts, long lead times, financing arrangements and other time-consuming steps. For example, many end-users are required to purchase capital equipment through a formal public tendering process, which often entails an extended period of waiting time before the sale can be completed. Further, in light of the dependence by purchasers of capital equipment on the availability of credit, the timing of sales may depend upon the timing of CML’s or our purchasers’ abilities to arrange for credit sources, including loans from local Chinese banks or financing from international loan programs such as those offered by the U.S. Export-Import Bank and the German KfW Development Bank. In addition, a relatively limited number of orders and shipments may constitute a meaningful percentage of our revenue in any one period. As a result of these factors impacting the timing of revenues, our operating results have varied and are expected to continue to vary from period to period and year to year. We and the joint venture may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, and in the future the joint venture may not be able to obtain insurance against these claims at a reasonable cost or at all. The nature of the Medical Products Business creates exposure to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the distribution of medical equipment and healthcare products. This product liability exposure may not be avoidable, since third parties develop and manufacture the equipment and products sold in such business. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, CML or any of these third party manufacturers, or if a significant product recall occurs, there would be adverse reputational consequences, damages may be awarded, insurance, legal and other expenses would increase, customers and/or suppliers might be lost and there may be other adverse results. We did not and CML does not maintain product liability insurance, but in the past we had requested that we be named as an “additional insured” on policies held by our manufacturers. There can be no assurance that one or more liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of any of such or future policies. The Medical Products Business currently represents 11 manufacturers and CML and/or we are named as an additional insured on three of those manufacturers’ product liability policies and are otherwise 21 Table of Contents protected from substantial liability risk through language inserted in agency agreements with an additional three of those manufacturers. If we, CML or our manufacturers fail to comply with regulatory laws and regulations, we, the joint venture and/or such manufacturers may be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the manufacturer’s ability to develop, market and sell products successfully. This could harm our and/or CML’s reputation and lead to less acceptance of such products by the market. These enforcement actions may include: • product seizures; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; and • restrictions on or prohibitions against marketing the products. The Medical Products Business faces competition that may adversely impact that business, which impact may be increased as a result of China’s inclusion in the World Trade Organization. The Medical Products Business competes with other independent distributors of medical products in China. Given the rapid pace of technological advancement, particularly in the medical products field, other independent distributors may introduce products that compete directly with the products distributed by that business. In addition to other independent distributors, that business faces significant competition from direct distribution by established manufacturers. In the medical products field, for example, that business competes with certain major manufacturers that maintain their own direct sales forces in China. In addition, to the extent that certain manufacturers market a wide variety of products in China to different market sectors (including non-medical) under one brand name, those manufacturers may be better able than CML to establish brand name recognition across industry lines. As a result of China becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), tariffs on medical products have been lowered. In addition, the investment environment has improved for companies interested in establishing manufacturing operations in China. These developments may lead to increased imports of foreign medical products and increased domestic production of such products and therefore lead to increased competition in the domestic medical products markets. There can be no assurance that the Medical Products Business will be able to compete effectively with such manufacturers and distributors. If the Chinese Government tightens controls or policies on purchases of medical equipment or implements reforms which disrupt the market for medical devices, including eliminating value added tax (VAT) and duty exemptions for procurement under KfW Development Bank or U.S. Export-Import Bank financings, sales of medical products could be adversely affected. The Chinese Government has adopted a number of policies relating to purchase of medical products that affect how such products can be marketed and sold. For example, for most high value products, the Chinese Government requires that a public tendering process be utilized instead of direct sale negotiations between suppliers and customers. To the extent that requirements such as the tendering regulations continue to be required, sales by the Medical Products Business could be adversely affected due to delays or changes in the implementation of those regulations. In addition, the Chinese Government’s attempt at instituting reform programs directed at the procurement processes for medical devices, including potentially eliminating VAT and import duty exemptions for procurement under government-backed financings, such as our KfW Development Bank or U.S. Export-Import Bank financings, have from time-to-time resulted in disruptions in the marketplace that have adversely affected sales in that business. Elimination of VAT and 22 Table of Contents import duty exemptions related to procurement under government-backed financings could render such programs uncompetitive and such sales could be adversely affected. There can be no assurances as to when or if such reform programs will be initiated in the future or how long they will last. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economic system of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The economic policies of the Chinese Government and economic growth of China could adversely affect us. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese Government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese Government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese Government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, address issues of corruption, control inflation, regulate the exchange rate of the RMB and otherwise regulate economic expansion. In addition, the Chinese Government has attempted to control inflation by controlling the prices of basic commodities. The Chinese Government has also from time-to-time mandated changes in the Chinese tax law affecting Company operations. Although we believe that the economic reforms, changes and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese Government will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in China, in the policies of the Chinese Government or in the laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and on infrastructure investment in China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business by, for example, reducing the demand for our products and/or services. The Chinese legal system is relatively new and may not provide protections to us or our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, including corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to foreign investors and may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. The Chinese Government has often reiterated its policy of furthering reforms in the socialist market economy. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. The Chinese government has taken steps to strengthen labor law and labor contract law, and to enforce compliance with these laws. These actions, designed to improve protection of employees’ rights, 23 Table of Contents often serve to increase the responsibilities and labor costs of employers. The most significant recent changes include a requirement to offer permanent employment at the conclusion of an initial fixed-term employment contract; a requirement to make severance payments in all cases of termination except for extreme breach of contract by employee or voluntary resignation; and requirement for financial compensation in return for non-compete agreements. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. The conversion of Renminbi (RMB) into foreign currency is regulated, and these regulations could adversely affect us. All of our revenues and a significant portion of our operating expenses are denominated in RMB. A portion of our USD earnings are typically transferred to China and converted into RMB for the payment of expenses. The transmission of foreign currency in and out of China is subject to regulation by China’s State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. It is possible that SAFE could impose new or increase existing restrictions on such currency uses or otherwise impose exchange controls that adversely affect our practices. Adverse actions by SAFE also could affect our ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions. A New SARS or similar outbreak, such as Avian flu or Swine Flu, could further adversely affect our operations. In March 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now commonly known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. The severity of the outbreak in certain municipalities, such as Beijing, and provinces, such as Guangdong Province, materially affected general commercial activity. Since the SARS epidemic in China had conflicting impacts on our healthcare businesses, the extent of the adverse impact that any future SARS outbreak or similar epidemic such as Avian flu or Swine flu, could have on the Chinese economy and on us cannot be predicted at this time. Any further epidemic outbreak could significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our facilities and may generally disrupt operations. In particular, a large percentage of the expatriate community that uses our healthcare services left China during the height of the SARS epidemic and could be expected to do so again under similar circumstances. Although no one is able to predict the future impact of SARS, the Chinese Government and the Chinese healthcare industry have taken measures to prepare in the event of another SARS outbreak. The Chinese Government has indicated that any future outbreak would be contained and not present the same magnitude of social and economic disruption as experienced in the first outbreak. Recently, there have been cases of Swine flu in the human population. While the risk of sustained human-to-human transmission is low, the possibility of new virus outbreaks and related adverse impact on our ability to conduct normal business operations cannot be discounted. Any further such outbreak could severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which could have a material adverse effect on us as previously experienced. Natural disasters, such as the earthquakes in Sichuan Province in May 2008 and in Qinghai Province in April 2010, could adversely affect our business operations. In May 2008, a major earthquake struck the southwestern Province of Sichuan. This event and the subsequent disaster relief efforts were widely reported by the international press. As a result of the catastrophe, many tens of thousands were killed and the lives of millions of Chinese citizens were impacted. This event significantly disrupted our ability to conduct the normal business operations of our former Medical Products division in the southwest region during disaster recovery operations during the prior year. Qinghai Province is in a remote area of China and the earthquake there had a lesser impact on our business operations. In both situations, our Healthcare Services business donated resources to assist the disaster recovery efforts. Similar natural disasters could have a similar adverse effect on our operations. 24 Table of Contents The Chinese Government could change its policies toward, or even nationalize, private enterprise, which could harm our operations. Over the past several years, the Chinese Government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation and substantial reforms of the healthcare system in China. The Chinese Government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese Government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese Government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. The Chinese tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties in both interpretation and enforcement of the laws. In the past, following the Chinese Government’s program of privatizing many state owned enterprises, the Chinese Government attempted to augment its revenues through heightened tax collection efforts. Continued efforts by the Chinese Government to increase tax revenues could result in other decisions or interpretations of the tax laws by the taxing authorities that increase our future tax liabilities or deny us expected refunds. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure Control by insiders and their ownership of shares having disproportionate voting rights could have a depressive effect on the price of common stock, impede a change in control and impede management replacement. Certain of our present management stockholders own 1,162,500 shares of our Class B common stock, which vote as a single class with the common stock on all matters except as otherwise required by law. The Class B common stock and the common stock are identical on a share-for-share basis, except that the holders of Class B common stock have six votes per share on each matter considered by our stockholders. As of December 31, 2011 the three management holders of our outstanding Class B common stock represented approximately 7% of our outstanding capital stock and were deemed to beneficially own capital stock representing approximately 31% of total voting power and may be able to cause the election of all of our directors. These management stockholders have sufficient voting power to determine, in general, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The disproportionate vote afforded the Class B common stock could serve to impede or prevent a change of control. As a result, potential acquirers will be discouraged from seeking to acquire control through the purchase of common stock, which could have a depressive effect on the price of our securities. In addition, the effective control by these management stockholders could have the effect of preventing or frustrating attempts to influence, replace or remove management. Our unissued preferred stock could be issued to impede a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 500,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval (but subject to applicable government regulatory restrictions), to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. We have a Stockholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”). The Rights Plan was designed to preserve long-term values and protect stockholders against inadequate offers and other unfair tactics to acquire 25 Table of Contents control of the Company. Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder of record at the close of business on June 14, 2007 received a dividend distribution of one right to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock at a price of $38.67. The rights will become exercisable only if a person, other than certain current founders of the Company and their affiliates and certain existing investor pursuant to existing investment agreements, or group acquires 15% or more of the Company’s common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in that person or group owning at least 15% of our common stock (the “acquiring person or group”). In such case, all stockholders other than the acquiring person or group will be entitled to purchase, by paying the $38.67 exercise price, common stock (or a common stock equivalent) with a value of twice the exercise price. In addition, at any time after such event, and prior to the acquisition by any person or group of 50% or more of our common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its option, require each outstanding right (other than rights held by the acquiring person or group) to be exchanged for one share of our common stock (or one common stock equivalent). If a person or group becomes an acquiring person and the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination or sells more than 50% of its assets or earning power, each right will entitle all other holders to purchase, by payment of $38.67 exercise price, common stock of the acquiring company with a value of twice the exercise price. The Rights Plan expires on June 14, 2017. The Rights Plan may have anti-takeover effects by discouraging potential proxy contests and other takeover attempts, particularly those that have not been negotiated with the Board of Directors. The Rights Plan may also prevent or inhibit the acquisition of a controlling position in our common stock and may prevent or inhibit takeover attempts that certain stockholders may deem to be in their or other stockholders’ interest or in the interest of the Company, or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Rights Plan may also increase the cost of, and thus discourage, any such future acquisition or attempted acquisition, and would render the removal of the current Board of Directors or management of the Company more difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 