ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. However, these are the risks our management believes are material. If any of the following risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. This report contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those listed below and elsewhere in this report, which, among others, should be considered in evaluating our future performance. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition Global financial upheaval and credit restrictions may have a negative impact on operations. In fiscal 2009, there were significant disruptions in the world financial and credit markets, including those in China, which have continued through the filing of this report. These events have been prolifically reported in the media. Should there be a catastrophic collapse of the global financial structure or continued downturns in China, we could lose our asset base and daily business operations, which could result in us being unable to operate the Company. Our cash and investments were and continue to be negatively impacted due to the drop in world-wide markets, which has and will limit the amount of interest income earned. Our Healthcare Services division is dependent on foreign residents in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou for the majority of its patients. Should foreign businesses significantly reduce their China operations, our hospitals could sustain a reduction in business, which may result in losses. To a lesser extent, our hospitals are dependent on affluent Chinese citizens for a portion of their patients. Should the slowdown in the Chinese economy continue or worsen, our hospitals could sustain a reduction in business which may result in losses. Our Medical Products division is somewhat dependent upon credit availability for the opening of bid and performance bonds and the extension of credit terms to our Chinese customers through our government-backed financing packages. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience delays in renewal of credit facilities as they expire and/or delays or denials in approvals of new credit facilities similar in nature to our existing facilities (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Should we experience a lack of sufficient credit availability, it may result in loss of bidding opportunities, delays in contract execution or cancellation of contracts. In addition, the budgeting cycle for large capital purchases by our customers could be impacted by the economic slowdown in China. Should the slowdown continue or worsen, our products division could experience significant reductions in business flow which may result in losses. Our business is capital intensive and we may not be able to access the capital markets when we would like to raise capital. We may not be able to raise adequate capital to complete some or all of our business strategies or to react rapidly to changes in technology, products, services or the competitive landscape. Healthcare service and product providers in China often face high capital requirements in order to take advantage of new market opportunities, respond to rigorous competitive pressures and react quickly to changes in technology. Many of our competitors are committing substantial capital and, in many instances, are forming alliances to acquire or maintain market leadership. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. In particular, our strategy in the business of providing healthcare services includes the establishment and maintenance of healthcare facilities, which require significant capital. In addition, we plan to expand our distribution capabilities for medical products. In the absence of sufficient available capital, we would be unable to establish or maintain healthcare facilities as planned, and would be unable to expand our distribution business as planned. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to fund our capital expenditures, ongoing operations and indebtedness obligations. Our ability to service our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash flow. Our ability to generate cash flow is dependent on many factors, including: 9 Table of Contents • our future operating performance; • the demand for our services and products; • general economic conditions both in China and elsewhere and conditions affecting suppliers, customers and patients; • competition; and • legal and regulatory factors affecting us and our business, including exchange rate fluctuations. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to repay indebtedness, operate our business, respond to competition, pursue our growth strategy, which is capital intensive, or otherwise meet cash requirements. If we fail to manage our growth or maintain adequate internal accounting, disclosure and other controls, we would lose the ability to manage our business effectively and/or experience errors or information lapses affecting public reporting. We have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years and continue to explore ways to extend our service and product offerings. Our growth may place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. Our ability to successfully distribute products and offer services requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from senior management. We will need to modify and improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and other internal control and compliance procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. If we are unable to manage our growth and improve our controls, systems and procedures, they may become ineffective, we may be unable to operate efficiently and we may lose the ability to manage many other aspects of our business effectively and/or experience errors or information lapses affecting public reporting. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. If we are not successful in discovering and eliminating weaknesses in internal controls, we will lose the ability to manage our business effectively. If we lost the services of our key personnel, our leadership, expertise, experience, business relationships, strategic and operational planning and other important business attributes would be diminished. Our success to a large extent depends upon the continued services of certain executive officers, particularly Roberta Lipson, the Chief Executive Officer, Lawrence Pemble, the Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Elyse Beth Silverberg, the Executive Vice President and Secretary. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of Ms. Lipson, Ms. Silverberg and Mr. Pemble containing non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality provisions. The loss of service of any of our key employees could diminish our leadership, expertise, experience, business relationships, strategic and operating planning and other important business attributes, thus materially harming our business. Our business could be adversely affected by inflation or foreign currency fluctuation. Because we received over 62% of our revenue and generated 64% of our expenses within China in fiscal 2010, we have foreign currency exchange risk. The Chinese currency (RMB) is not freely traded and is closely controlled by the Chinese Government. The U.S. dollar (USD) has experienced volatility in world markets recently. During fiscal 2010 the RMB was basically unchanged against the USD. During fiscal 2010, fluctuation in the Euro-USD exchange rate resulted in exchange gains of $393,000, which are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. 10 Table of Contents As part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. Our sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of the RMB to the USD at March 31, 2010, indicated that if the USD uniformly increased in value by 10% relative to the RMB, we would have experienced an 11% decrease in net income. Conversely, a 10% increase in the value of the RMB relative to the USD at March 31, 2010, would have resulted in a 14% increase in net income. Based on the Consumer Price Index, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, inflation in China was 2.4% and inflation in the United States was 2.3%. The average annual rate of inflation over the three-year period from 2008 to 2010 was 3.3% in China and 2.1% in the United States. We have entered into loan arrangements that could impair our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our business obligations. The Company has entered into financings with certain institutions pursuant to which we have incurred and may further incur indebtedness, which indebtedness will require principal and interest payments. As of March 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $24 million, including $13 million of Tranche C Convertible Notes to a subsidiary of J. P. Morgan Chase & Co (JPM), with up to an additional $25 million and $20 million of potential indebtedness pursuant to loan arrangements with International Finance Corporation (IFC) and DEG-Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), respectively. (See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) Our indebtedness could affect our future operations, for example by: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness instead of funding working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business purposes; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy all of our debt obligations, thereby increasing the risk of triggering a cross-default provision; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns or other adverse developments relative to less leveraged competitors; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes in the future; and • increasing our cost of borrowing to satisfy business needs. The Tranche C Notes mature in 2017 and are convertible by the holder at any time and will be automatically converted upon the opening of two proposed new and/or expanded hospitals in China (the “JV Hospitals”), subject to compliance with certain financing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Tranche C Notes would be automatically converted after the earlier of 12 months having elapsed following commencement of operations at either of the JV Hospitals or either of the JV Hospitals achieving break-even earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for any 12-month period ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter, subject to compliance with certain financing provisions. So long as we fail to meet the foregoing conditions to automatic conversion, the notes would remain outstanding, ultimately requiring repayment in 2017 or earlier upon any acceleration. We currently are unable and may not in the future be able to draw down under our existing loan facilities with the IFC and DEG, which facilities will be required for many of our expansion plans. We currently have loan arrangements relating to $25 million and $20 million with IFC and DEG, respectively. (See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report 11 Table of Contents on Form 10-K.) Draws under the arrangement, as amended, currently must commence by July 1, 2010, and are contingent upon, among other things, the formation of new joint ventures in China that have yet to be approved to construct, equip and operate their respectively new Joint Venture Hospitals and related conditions. We have experienced delays in the development timeline and certain changes in project scope for the proposed healthcare facilities due to the fluctuations and uncertainties in the real estate markets in China resulting from the global economic downturn and, as a result, the joint ventures have yet to be formally approved. Prior to any draws under the facilities, we will have to reach agreement with the lenders on revisions to certain pre-conditions currently contained therein that have become outdated, including project scope and the applicable collateral. If we are not able to revise and then achieve these and any other pre-conditions by the deadline, we would not be able to use the facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on achieving our expansion plans. We may be unable to service or refinance our debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to reduce or refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future financial and operating performance. To a certain extent, our future performance will be affected by the impact of general economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt to avoid defaulting on our debt obligations or to meet other business needs. A refinancing of any of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates, could require us to comply with more onerous covenants that further restrict our business operations, could be restricted by another of our debt instruments outstanding, or refinancing opportunities may not be available at all. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. The agreements relating to our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our (and our subsidiaries’) ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends and management fees; • create or permit certain liens; • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur certain expenditures; and • enter into new businesses. The terms of our agreements with JPM impose covenants that if not complied with could result in claims for damages and the acceleration of the Tranche C Notes, which we may be unable to convert to our common stock. We entered into an investor rights agreement with JPM, pursuant to which JPM will be entitled to certain financial information on an ongoing basis, access to our books and records, assurances of our management continuity, limitations on the use of proceeds to the JV Hospitals and other prescribed purposes, maintenance of our insurance policies, assurances as to certain terms of any new joint ventures entered into by us in connection with the JV Hospitals, cross defaults with certain other debt, various limitations on future issuances of equity securities by us, a right of first refusal as to 20% of certain future equity securities issuances, consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio financial covenants and other covenants and conditions. In the event that we fail to satisfy any of the covenants contained in the investor rights agreement, we may face claims for damages and the inability to automatically convert the Tranche C Notes to our common stock. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurances that the agreements or proposed joint venture with Fosun Industrial Co., Limited will be consummated as proposed, if at all, nor that the intended terms thereof will be achieved. As of June 14, 2010, the Company entered into a stock purchase agreement (the “Stock Purchase Agreement”) with Fosun Industrial Co., Limited (the “Investor”), and Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd (the “Warrantor”). Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to issue and sell to Investor up to 1,990,447 shares of the Company’s common stock (representing approximately 10% of all outstanding common stock after such sale, based on the number of outstanding shares as of the date of the Stock Purchase Agreement) at a purchase price of $15 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $30.0 million, the net proceeds of which are expected to be used, among other things, to continue expansion of the Company’s United Family Healthcare network. The sale of the shares of common stock to Investor would be completed in two closings, each of which would relate to approximately one-half of the shares to be purchased and be subject to certain customary closing conditions. In addition, the second closing is subject to the consummation of a joint venture (the “Joint Venture”) between the parties to be comprised of the Company’s Medical Products division and certain of Investor’s medical device businesses in China. The initial closing is expected to occur in the second quarter of the current fiscal year and the occurrence of the second closing will depend on, among other things, the time required to consummate the Joint Venture. The terms of the Joint Venture are outlined in a term sheet contained in the Stock Purchase Agreement and remain subject to the negotiation and execution of definitive agreements. The Joint Venture is expected to include equity participation bonus opportunities for existing Company executives in the event of a qualified initial public offering or certain other events. There can be no assurance that the Company will consummate either initial or second closings, which are subject to certain closing conditions, including the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the Company. In the event of such consummations, there can be no assurance as to the effective enforcement of the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement. Definitive documentation of the Joint Venture, including many details relating thereto, is expected to require approximately three to five months until completion. That completion will depend on the negotiation of numerous business terms not reflected in the current term sheet or only reflected in general terms. Further, the respective operations to be contributed by the parties to the Joint Venture remain subject to continuing discussion. There can be no assurance that the Joint Venture will be completed on the anticipated timetable, if at all, nor that the parties will reach final agreement on all business terms in order to reach consummation. In addition, there can be no assurance that the final terms of the Joint Venture, if agreement is reached, will be as currently contemplated in the term sheet, which terms may vary as a result of, among other things, negotiations, due diligence, operational developments of the businesses to be contributed and the industries thereof, valuation considerations or external factors of any kind. In the event that the Joint Venture is consummated, the Company may experience diversion of personnel and other resources, additional capital requirements for the Joint Venture, internal restructuring in light of the transfer of the Medical Products division and other adverse effects. Further, even upon the consummation of the Joint Venture, there can be no assurance that the Joint Venture will be successful in its operations or strategies or achieve positive results for the Company. In addition, we would have a minority interest with respect to the Joint Venture as currently contemplated. As such, except for certain prescribed matters, we may not be able to exert any influence over the business or other activities of the Joint Venture nor assure its success in any way. Our venture partner may not exercise the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate the Joint Venture optimally. Further, the approval of our venture partner also may be required for us to receive certain distributions of funds or otherwise experience benefits from the Joint Venture. At the initial closing under the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company, Investor and Warrantor would enter into a stockholder agreement (the “Stockholder Agreement”). Under the Stockholder Agreement, until the first to occur of (i) Investor holds 5% or less of the outstanding shares of common stock, (ii) there shall have been a 13 Table of Contents change of control of the Company as defined in the Stockholder Agreement, and (iii) the seventh anniversary of the initial closing, Investor has agreed to vote its shares in accordance with the recommendation of the Company’s Board of Directors on any matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company relating to the election of directors and compensation matters and with respect to certain proxy or consent solicitations. The Stockholder Agreement also contains standstill restrictions on Investor generally prohibiting the purchase of additional securities of the Company. The standstill restrictions terminate on the same basis as does the voting agreement above, except that the 5% standard would increase to 10% upon the second closing. In addition, the Stockholder Agreement contains an Investor lock-up restricting sales by Investor of its shares of the Company’s common stock for a period of up to five years following the date of the Stockholder Agreement, subject to certain exceptions. There can be no assurance as to the effective enforcement of the terms of the Stockholder Agreement, including the restrictions contained therein. In the event any such restrictions fail in whole or in part, Investor may be able to exercise rights unduly and adversely influencing the Company in ways diverging it from its current strategy and operations. Risks Relating to the Healthcare Services Division If we do not attract and retain qualified physicians, administrators or other hospital personnel, our hospital operations would be adversely affected. The United Family Healthcare network is a pioneering, international standard healthcare organization, whose mission is to provide comprehensive and integrated healthcare services in a warm and caring patient and family service-oriented environment to the largest urban centers in China. Our success in operating our hospitals and clinics will be, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of physicians on the medical staff of these hospitals and clinics and our ability to maintain good relations with our physicians. As we offer international standard healthcare at our hospitals and clinics, we are further dependent on attracting a limited number of qualified Western healthcare professionals, not all of whom have long-term relationships with China or intend to remain in China for extended periods of time. Physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to successfully maintain good relationships with physicians, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control labor costs, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is heavily regulated and failure to comply with those regulations could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. Healthcare providers in China, as in most other populous countries, are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the national and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to: licensing; the conduct of operations; the relationships among hospitals and their affiliated providers; the ownership of facilities; the addition of facilities and services; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records; billing for services; and prices for services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate. In addition, further healthcare legislative reform is likely, and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in the event we do not comply or if the cost of compliance is expensive. The above list of certain regulated areas is not exhaustive and it is not possible to anticipate the exact nature of future healthcare legislative reform in China. Depending on the priorities determined by the Chinese Ministry of Health, the political climate at any given time, the continued development of the Chinese healthcare system and many other factors, future legislative reforms may be highly diverse, including stringent infection control policies, improved rural healthcare facilities, introduction of health insurance policies, regulation of reimbursement rates for healthcare services, increased regulation of the distribution of pharmaceuticals and numerous other policy matters. Consequently, the implications of these future reforms could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. 14 Table of Contents Our operations could be adversely affected by the high cost of malpractice insurance. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the U.S. have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant legal costs. While similar lawsuits are not common in China, to protect us from the cost of any such claims, we generally maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. We depend on information systems, which if not implemented and maintained, could adversely affect our operations. Our healthcare services business is dependent on effective information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring, utilization and other cost factors, supporting our healthcare management techniques, processing billing and providing data to regulators. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely impacted. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet operational needs. Moreover, the proposed expansion of facilities and similar activities requires transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities throughout our healthcare services operations. Upgrades, expansions of capabilities, and other potential system-wide improvements in information systems may require large capital expenditures. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly implement, finance, maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational disruptions, which could adversely affect our prospects or results of operations. Our operations face competition that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou healthcare facilities compete with a large number and variety of healthcare facilities in their respective markets. There are numerous Chinese hospitals, many with VIP wards catering to the affluent Chinese market, available to the general populace, as well as international clinics serving the expatriate business, diplomatic community and affluent Chinese population. There can be no assurance that these or other clinics, hospitals or other facilities will not commence or expand such operations, which would increase their competitive position and potentially erode our market position. Further, there can be no assurance that a qualified Western or other healthcare organization, having greater resources in the provision or management of healthcare services, will not decide to begin operations similar to those being conducted by us in Beijing, Shanghai or Guangzhou. Expansion of healthcare services to reach the Chinese population depends to some extent on the development of insurance products that are not available now. Medical insurance is not generally available to much of the Chinese population and reimbursement under Chinese government healthcare coverage is not allowed to our healthcare network. Consequently, visits to our hospital facilities by the local population normally must be paid for in cash. This limitation may impede the attractiveness of our services as compared to services for which government benefits are allowed, especially during challenging economic circumstances. Our expansion plans call for increasing the number of local Chinese who use our facilities. If we are not able to achieve this increase, our ability to continue to grow our Healthcare Services division of the Company would be materially adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our loan from the IFC places restrictions on the conduct of our healthcare services business. The existing loan from the IFC to BJU and SHU, which is guaranteed by the parent company, requires us to achieve specified liquidity and coverage ratios and meet other operating requirements in order for us to conduct certain transactions in our healthcare services business. The terms of our indebtedness with the IFC impose significant restrictions on our business. The indentures governing our outstanding notes and the agreement governing our loan contain various covenants that limit the ability of our hospitals to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments, including dividends and management fees; • create or permit certain liens; • enter into business combinations and asset sale transactions; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur certain expenditures; and • enter into new businesses. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The loan agreement with the IFC also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control such as business conditions in China. Our failure to maintain applicable financial ratios, in certain circumstances, would limit or prevent us from making payments from the hospitals to the parent company and would otherwise limit the hospitals’ flexibility in financial matters. Timing of revenues due to seasonality and fluctuations in financial performance vary from quarter to quarter and are not necessarily indicative of our performance over longer periods. In the Healthcare Services division, our revenue is dependent on seasonal fluctuations related to epidemiology factors and the lifestyles of the expatriate community. For example, many expatriate families traditionally take annual home leave outside of China during the summer months. As a result of these factors impacting the timing of revenues, our operating results have varied and are expected to continue to vary from period to period and year to year. We may not be able to complete our proposed new and/or expanded hospital projects on budget if at all, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and proposed expansion. The JPM, IFC and DEG financings and future financings have been designed to provide a portion of required funds for our proposed new and/or expanded healthcare facility projects. As presently budgeted, such projects will require more financing than we currently have obtained. In addition, we currently are unable and may not in the future be able to draw down under the IFC and DEG facilities. Such projects are in various early development stages and will take significant time to complete, which completion cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing, including establishing our ability to draw under the IFC and DEG facilities, our budgeted costs are incorrect or other factors, such as Chinese government regulations or global economic circumstances for example, which interfere with our ability to complete such projects, we may not be able to complete the projects as planned or at all, which would result in the incurrence of debt and other costs that are not necessarily offset by the anticipated revenues from the projects. In addition, obtaining additional financing and completing the projects may be required to automatically convert the Tranche C Notes. If such financing cannot be obtained and the projects cannot be completed, the Tranche C Notes would remain outstanding, ultimately requiring repayment which may interfere with future borrowing. 16 Table of Contents Risks relating to our Medical Products Division Future Losses in the Division. We have experienced losses after corporate allocations in the Medical Products division over three of the past four fiscal years due to a variety of factors including delays in product registration approvals from the Chinese government, delays in renegotiating the trade agreements between the United States and China allowing the use of U.S. Export-Import Bank backed financings and other factors. There can be no assurance that we will not experience operating losses in the future, which would have a negative impact on corporate results. We depend on our relations with suppliers and would be adversely affected by the termination of arrangements with, or shortage or loss of any significant product line from them. We rely on a limited number of suppliers that account for a significant portion of our revenues. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Siemens Medical Solutions (Siemens) represented 42%, 39% and 64% of our product revenue, respectively. Although a substantial number of our relationships with our capital equipment suppliers, including Siemens, are pursuant to exclusive contracts, the relationships are based substantially on specific sales quotas and mutual satisfaction in addition to the other terms of the contractual arrangements. Our agreement with Siemens was renewed on October 1, 2009 for a 15-month term and is expected to be renewed in the future with sales quotas established annually. The agreement with Siemens and contracts with our other suppliers often contain short-term cancellation provisions permitting the contracts to be terminated, substantially amended on short notice (from 30 days to six months), minimum sales quantity requirements or targets and provisions triggering termination upon the occurrence of certain events. From time to time, we and/or our suppliers terminate or revise our respective distribution arrangements. There can be no assurance that cancellations of, or other material adverse effects on our contracts, will not occur. There can be no assurance that our suppliers will not elect to change their method of distribution into the Chinese marketplace to a form that does not use our services. Our sales of medical products depend to some extent on our suppliers continuing to improve their products and introduce new models. If a supplier fails to upgrade its product line as quickly as competitive manufacturers have done, our revenues could be adversely impacted. The market for medical equipment in China is highly competitive and buyers are very interested in purchasing the latest technology. In operating under exclusive agreements with certain manufacturers, we are tied to a single source in each product area and are dependent on the acceptance of the manufacturers’ products in the market place. If there is a delay in the introduction of new products or technology, this could influence buyers to choose competitive offerings from other sources. In addition, if the new product or technology fails to operate properly after product launch, our results may suffer due to delays caused by the time required for the manufacturer to correct the initial product defects. Our sales of medical products depend to some extent on our suppliers maintaining the required product registrations required to sell their products in China. If a supplier fails to maintain or renew such product registrations in a timely manner, we would be unable to sell their products and our revenue could be adversely impacted. The Chinese government requires all medical devices to be registered for sale by the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) and other Chinese government organizations. For the products we represent, some of these registrations are handled by ourselves and some of them are handled by the original equipment manufacturer. If the manufacturers are not timely with their registrations or let them expire prior to renewal, we would be unable to sell their products and our revenues would be negatively impacted. 17 Table of Contents Timing of revenues and fluctuations in financial performance vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are not necessarily indicative of our performance over longer periods. Sales of capital equipment often require protracted sales efforts, long lead times, financing arrangements and other time-consuming steps. For example, many end-users are required to purchase capital equipment through a formal public tendering process, which often entails an extended period of waiting time before the sale can be completed. Further, in light of the dependence by purchasers of capital equipment on the availability of credit, the timing of sales may depend upon the timing of our or our purchasers’ abilities to arrange for credit sources, including loans from local Chinese banks or financing from international loan programs such as those offered by the U.S. Export-Import Bank and the German KfW Development Bank. In addition, a relatively limited number of orders and shipments may constitute a meaningful percentage of our revenue in any one period. As a result of these factors impacting the timing of revenues, our operating results have varied and are expected to continue to vary from period to period and year to year. We have not been able to arrange financings, from third party banks or governments, for our customers in every year. Future periodic financings arranged on behalf of our customers cannot be assured. The absence of these financings could result in lower sales. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized $11,902,000, $19,862,000 and $2,845,000 in sales, respectively, related to third party financings pursuant to U.S. Export-Import Bank and German KfW Development Bank loan programs that constituted 14%, 22% and 4%, respectively, of our product sales for those years. The U.S. Export-Import Bank loan guarantee program that we developed and utilized several times between 1995 and 2002 was halted between 2003 and 2006 due to government-to-government negotiations over a new framework agreement. Periodic financings obtained for customers have had a positive impact on our results of operations during the periods in which they are consummated, including the last three fiscal years, but may not be indicative of future results. The arrangements for these financings and resultant sales are planned and implemented over a long period of time prior to our recognition of the revenue for them. As a result of the financings, we recognized relatively substantial sales during relatively short periods. Accordingly, our results of operations for the respective fiscal quarters during which the sales were reflected were significantly and positively impacted by the timing of the payments from the financings and were not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for any other quarter or fiscal year. There can be no assurance that the KfW Development Bank, the U.S. Export-Import Bank or any other financing commitments will be obtained by us for our customers in the future. The absence of these financings would have a material adverse impact on our sales volume and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, and in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance against these claims at a reasonable cost or at all. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the distribution of medical equipment and healthcare products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure, since third parties develop and manufacture our equipment and products. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us or any of these third party manufacturers, or if a significant product recall occurs, we would experience adverse consequences to our reputation, we might be required to pay damages, our insurance, legal and other expenses would increase, we might lose customers and/or suppliers and there may be other adverse results. We do not maintain product liability insurance, but we do request that we be named as an “additional insured” on policies held by our manufacturers. There can be no assurance that one or more liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of any of such policies. We currently represent 5 manufacturers and are named as an additional insured on 3 of those manufacturers’ liability policies and are otherwise protected from substantial liability risk through language inserted in our agency agreements with 18 Table of Contents an additional two of those manufacturers. Since most products handled by us do not involve invasive measures, they do not represent a significant risk from product liability. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with regulatory laws and regulations, we or such manufacturers may be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the manufacturer’s ability to develop, market and sell products successfully. This could harm our reputation and lead to less acceptance of such products by the market. These enforcement actions may include: • product seizures; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; and • restrictions on or prohibitions against marketing the products. We face competition that may adversely impact us, which impact may be increased as a result of China’s inclusion in the World Trade Organization. We compete with other independent distributors of medical products in China. Given the rapid pace of technological advancement, particularly in the medical products field, other independent distributors may introduce products into our markets that compete directly with the products we distribute. In addition to other independent distributors, we face significant competition from direct distribution by established manufacturers. In the medical products field, for example, we compete with certain major manufacturers that maintain their own direct sales forces in China. In addition, to the extent that certain manufacturers market a wide variety of products in China to different market sectors (including non-medical) under one brand name, those manufacturers may be better able than we are to establish brand name recognition across industry lines. As a result of China becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), tariffs on medical products have been lowered. In addition, the investment environment has improved for companies interested in establishing manufacturing operations in China. These developments may lead to increased imports of foreign medical products and increased domestic production of such products and therefore lead to increased competition in the domestic medical products markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with such manufacturers and distributors. If we are not able to hire and retain qualified sales representatives and service specialists, our marketing competitiveness, selling capabilities and related growth efforts will be impaired. We believe that to be successful we must continue to hire, train and retain highly qualified sales representatives and service specialists. Our sales growth has depended on hiring and developing new sales representatives. Due to the relationships developed between our sales representatives and our customers, upon the departure of a sales representative, we face the risk of losing the representative’s customers, especially if the representative were to act as a representative of our competitors. Our employment contracts with senior level managers include non-compete clauses. In addition, the imaging equipment market and other high-technology medical equipment markets rely on the hiring and retention of skilled service specialists to maintain such equipment. There may be a shortage of these skilled specialists, which may result in intense competition and increasing salaries. Any inability on our part to hire or retain such skilled specialists could limit our ability to expand, impairing our marketing competitiveness, selling capabilities and related growth efforts. We must maintain a significant investment in merchandise and parts inventories, which are costly and, if not properly managed, would result in an inability to provide timely marketing and delivery 19 Table of Contents and could result in financial or operating imbalances and problems with liquidity and capital resources. In order to provide prompt and complete service to our customers, we maintain a significant investment in merchandise and parts inventories. Although we closely monitor our inventory exposure through a variety of inventory control procedures and policies, including reviews for obsolescence and valuation, there can be no assurance that such procedures and policies will continue to be effective or that unforeseen product development or price changes or termination of distribution rights will not result in an inability to provide timely supply and delivery or unforeseen valuation adjustments to inventories and could result in financial or operating imbalances and problems with liquidity and capital resources. If we do not maintain good relations with foreign trade corporations, our ability to import products may be adversely affected. We must make a substantial portion of our sales into China through foreign trade corporations, or FTCs. Although purchasing decisions are made by the end-users, which may be individuals or groups having the required approvals from their administrative organizations and which are obligated to pay the applicable purchase prices, we enter into a formal purchase contract with only the FTCs. The FTCs make purchases on behalf of the end-users and are legally authorized by the Chinese Government to conduct import business. These organizations are chartered and regulated by the government and are formed to facilitate foreign trade. We market our products directly to end-users, but in consummating sales we also must interact with the particular FTCs representing the end-users. By virtue of our direct contractual relationship with the FTC, rather than the end-user, we are to some extent dependent upon the continuing existence of and contractual compliance by the FTCs until the particular transaction has been completed. Our dependence on sub-distributors and dealers could be detrimental to our financial condition if those sub-distributors or dealers do not sell our products. Our growth strategy includes increased sales of medical instrumentation and other medical products to independent sub-distributors and dealers, who in turn sell to end-users. If the efforts of such sub-distributors and dealers prove unsuccessful, if such sub-distributors and dealers abandon or limit their sales of our products, or if such sub-distributors and dealers encounter serious financial difficulties, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Sub-distributors and dealers purchase from us to fill specific orders from their customers or to maintain certain predetermined stocking levels. There can be no assurance that sub-distributors and dealers will continue to purchase our products. Further, such sub-distributors and dealers generally are not exclusive to us and are free to sell, and do sell, competing products. If the Chinese Government tightens controls or policies on purchases of medical equipment or implements reforms which disrupt the market for medical devices, including eliminating value added tax (VAT) and duty exemptions for procurement under KfW Development Bank or U.S. Export-Import Bank financings, our sales could be adversely affected. The Chinese Government has adopted a number of policies relating to purchase of medical products that affect how we can market and sell such products. For example, for most high value products, the Chinese Government requires that a public tendering process be utilized instead of direct sale negotiations between suppliers and customers. To the extent that requirements such as the tendering regulations continue to be required, our sales could be adversely affected due to delays or changes in the implementation of those regulations. In addition, the Chinese Government’s attempt at instituting reform programs directed at the procurement processes for medical devices, including potentially eliminating VAT and import duty exemptions for procurement under government-backed financings such as our KfW Development Bank or U.S. Export-Import Bank financings, have from time-to-time resulted in disruptions in the marketplace that have adversely affected our sales. Elimination of VAT and import duty exemptions related to procurement 20 Table of Contents under government-backed financings could render such programs uncompetitive and our sales could be adversely affected. There can be no assurances as to when or if such reform programs will be initiated in the future or how long they will last. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economic system of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government investment, the level of development, control of capital investment, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The economic policies of the Chinese Government and economic growth of China could adversely affect us. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese Government has been reforming the Chinese economic system from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese Government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy and a higher level of management autonomy. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress, but the growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Economic growth has also been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The Chinese Government has implemented various policies from time to time to restrain the rate of such economic growth, address issues of corruption, control inflation, regulate the exchange rate of the RMB and otherwise regulate economic expansion. In addition, the Chinese Government has attempted to control inflation by controlling the prices of basic commodities. The Chinese Government has also from time-to-time mandated changes in the Chinese tax law affecting Company operations. Although we believe that the economic reforms, changes and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the Chinese Government will continue to have a positive effect on economic development in China, these policies and measures may, from time to time, be modified or reversed. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in China, in the policies of the Chinese Government or in the laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and on infrastructure investment in China. These developments could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business by, for example, reducing the demand for our products and/or services. The Chinese legal system is relatively new and may not provide protections to us or our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese Government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general, including corporate organization and governance, foreign investments, commerce, taxation and trade. Legislation over the past 25 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to foreign investors and may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. The Chinese Government has often reiterated its policy of furthering reforms in the socialist market economy. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. The Chinese government has taken steps to strengthen labor law and labor contract law, and to enforce compliance with these laws. These actions, designed to improve protection of employees’ rights, 21 Table of Contents often serve to increase the responsibilities and labor costs of employers. The most significant recent changes include a requirement to offer permanent employment at the conclusion of an initial fixed-term employment contract; a requirement to make severance payments in all cases of termination except for extreme breach of contract by employee or voluntary resignation; and requirement for financial compensation in return for non-compete agreements. No assurance can be given that these changes will not have an adverse effect on business conditions in China generally or on our business in particular. The conversion of Renminbi (RMB) into foreign currency is regulated, and these regulations could adversely affect us. A significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. A portion of our revenues in RMB are typically converted into USD and transferred to the United States for payment of invoices. In addition, a portion of our USD earnings are typically transferred to China and converted into RMB for the payment of expenses. The transmission of foreign currency in and out of China is subject to regulation by China’s State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. It is possible that SAFE could impose new or increase existing restrictions on such currency uses or otherwise impose exchange controls that adversely affect our practices. Adverse actions by SAFE also could affect our ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions. The SARS outbreak or similar outbreak, such as Avian flu or Swine Flu, could further adversely affect our operations. In March 2003, several countries, including China, experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now commonly known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. The severity of the outbreak in certain municipalities, such as Beijing, and provinces, such as Guangdong Province, materially affected general commercial activity. Since the SARS epidemic in China had conflicting impacts on our healthcare businesses, the extent of the adverse impact that any future SARS outbreak or similar epidemic such as Avian flu or Swine flu, could have on the Chinese economy and on us cannot be predicted at this time. Any further epidemic outbreak could significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our facilities and may generally disrupt operations. In particular, a large percentage of the expatriate community that uses our healthcare services left China during the height of the SARS epidemic and could be expected to do so again under similar circumstances. Although no one is able to predict the future impact of SARS, the Chinese Government and the Chinese healthcare industry have taken measures to prepare in the event of another SARS outbreak. The Chinese Government has indicated that any future outbreak would be contained and not present the same magnitude of social and economic disruption as experienced in the first outbreak. Recently, there have been cases of Swine flu in the human population. While the risk of sustained human-to-human transmission is low, the possibility of new virus outbreaks and related adverse impact on our ability to conduct normal business operations cannot be discounted. Any further such outbreak could severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which could have a material adverse effect on us as previously experienced. Natural disasters, such as the earthquakes in Sichuan Province in May 2008 and in Qinghai Province in April 2010, could adversely affect our business operations. In May 2008, a major earthquake struck the southwestern Province of Sichuan. This event and the subsequent disaster relief efforts were widely reported by the international press. As a result of the catastrophe, many tens of thousands were killed and the lives of millions of Chinese citizens were impacted. This event significantly disrupted our ability to conduct the normal business operations of the Medical Products division in the southwest region during disaster recovery operations during the prior year. Qinghai Province is in a remote area of China and the earthquake there had a lesser impact on our business operations. In both situations, our Healthcare Services division donated resources to assist the disaster recovery efforts. Similar natural disasters could have a similar adverse effect on our operations. 22 Table of Contents The Chinese Government could change its policies toward, or even nationalize, private enterprise, which could harm our operations. Over the past several years, the Chinese Government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation and substantial reforms of the healthcare system in China. The Chinese Government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese Government resulting in changes in laws, regulations, their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese Government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. The Chinese tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties in both interpretation and enforcement of the laws. In the past, following the Chinese Government’s program of privatizing many state owned enterprises, the Chinese Government attempted to augment its revenues through heightened tax collection efforts. Continued efforts by the Chinese Government to increase tax revenues could result in other decisions or interpretations of the tax laws by the taxing authorities that increase our future tax liabilities or deny us expected refunds. Risks Related to our Corporate Structure Control by insiders and their ownership of shares having disproportionate voting rights could have a depressive effect on the price of common stock, impede a change in control and impede management replacement. Certain of our present management stockholders own 1,162,500 shares of our Class B common stock, which vote as a single class with the common stock on all matters except as otherwise required by law. The Class B common stock and the common stock are identical on a share-for-share basis, except that the holders of Class B common stock have six votes per share on each matter considered by our stockholders. As of March 31, 2010, the three management holders of our outstanding Class B common stock represented approximately 8% of our outstanding capital stock and were deemed to beneficially own capital stock representing approximately 34% of total voting power and may be able to cause the election of all of our directors. These management stockholders have sufficient voting power to determine, in general, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The disproportionate vote afforded the Class B common stock could serve to impede or prevent a change of control. As a result, potential acquirers will be discouraged from seeking to acquire control through the purchase of common stock, which could have a depressive effect on the price of our securities. In addition, the effective control by these management stockholders could have the effect of preventing or frustrating attempts to influence, replace or remove management. Our unissued preferred stock could be issued to impede a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 500,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval (but subject to applicable government regulatory restrictions), to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. 23 Table of Contents We have a Stockholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”). The Rights Plan was designed to preserve long-term values and protect stockholders against inadequate offers and other unfair tactics to acquire control of the Company. Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder of record at the close of business on June 14, 2007 received a dividend distribution of one right to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock at a price of $38.67. The rights will become exercisable only if a person, other than certain current affiliates of the Company, or group acquires 15% or more of the Company’s common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in that person or group owning at least 15% of our common stock (the “acquiring person or group”). In such case, all stockholders other than the acquiring person or group will be entitled to purchase, by paying the $38.67 exercise price, common stock (or a common stock equivalent) with a value of twice the exercise price. In addition, at any time after such event, and prior to the acquisition by any person or group of 50% or more of our common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its option, require each outstanding right (other than rights held by the acquiring person or group) to be exchanged for one share of our common stock (or one common stock equivalent). If a person or group becomes an acquiring person and the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination or sells more than 50% of its assets or earning power, each right will entitle all other holders to purchase, by payment of $38.67 exercise price, common stock of the acquiring company with a value of twice the exercise price. The Rights Plan expires on June 14, 2017. The Rights Plan may have anti-takeover effects by discouraging potential proxy contests and other takeover attempts, particularly those that have not been negotiated with the Board of Directors. The Rights Plan may also prevent or inhibit the acquisition of a controlling position in our common stock and may prevent or inhibit takeover attempts that certain stockholders may deem to be in their or other stockholders’ interest or in the interest of the Company, or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Rights Plan may also increase the cost of, and thus discourage, any such future acquisition or attempted acquisition, and would render the removal of the current Board of Directors or management of the Company more difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 