ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to general and industry specific economic factors that are largely out of our control and could affect our operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on various economic factors over which we have little control, that include: • the availability of qualified drivers, • access to the credit and capital markets, • changes in regulations concerning shipment and storage of material we transport and depot, • increases in fuel taxes and tolls, • interest rate fluctuations, • excess capacity in the tank trucking industry, • changes in license and regulatory fees, • potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry, • downturns in customers’ business cycles, • reductions in customers’ shipping requirements, and 17 Table of Contents • the U.S. economy generally. As a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices, lower profit margins, and less availability of cash in the future. We have a large number of customers in the chemical-processing and consumer-goods industries. If these customers experience fluctuations in their business activity due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other industry conditions, the volume of freight transported by us or container services provided by us on behalf of those customers may decrease. The trucking industry has recently experienced a slowdown due to lower demand resulting from slowing economic conditions. Our substantial leverage and restrictions contained in our debt agreements, including our credit facility and our indentures, could hamper our operations. At December 31, 2008, we had consolidated long-term indebtedness and capital lease obligations, including current maturities, of $362.6 million. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • using a portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our indebtedness will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities, • it increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, • it limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, • it limits our ability to exploit business opportunities, and • it limits our operational flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements limit the use of proceeds from our ordinary operations and from extraordinary transactions. These limits may require us to apply proceeds in a certain manner or prohibit us from utilizing the proceeds in our operations or from prepaying or retiring indebtedness that we desire. Our variable interest rate debt was $222.0 million as of December 31, 2008. Therefore, increases in market rates of interest will increase our interest expense, which would decrease our earnings. A 1% increase in the interest rate for our variable debt would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.2 million. Recent turmoil in the credit and capital markets and in the financial services industry may increase our borrowing costs and may negatively impact our liquidity. Recently, the credit markets, capital markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance our operations from our existing lenders under our bank credit agreements or obtain credit from trade creditors were to be impaired. We may also be unable to refinance existing indebtedness in the capital markets if we desire or to do so only at unfavorable rates as a result of capital markets turmoil. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers’ ability to finance their operations, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. One consequence of these upheavals has been sudden and dramatic changes in LIBOR. At December 31, 2008, $222.0 million in principal amount of our outstanding borrowings have interest based solely or alternatively on a margin over LIBOR. Increases in LIBOR could therefore materially increase the cost of our borrowings. In addition, capital markets have recently experienced significant volatility and disruption. A 18 Table of Contents majority of our existing indebtedness was sold through capital markets transactions. We anticipate that the capital markets could be a source of refinancing of our existing indebtedness in the future. This source of refinancing may not be available if capital markets volatility and disruption continues, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Loss of affiliates and owner-operators could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We rely on participants in our affiliate program and independent owner-operators. A reduction in the number of owner-operators, whether due to capital requirements related to the expense of obtaining, operating and maintaining equipment or for other reasons, could have a negative effect on our operations and profitability. Similarly the loss of our more robust affiliates could adversely affect our profitability. Contracts with affiliates are for various terms and contracts with owner-operators may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although affiliates and owner-operators are responsible for paying for their own equipment and other operating costs, significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek a higher percentage of the revenue generated if we are unable to increase our rates commensurately. Conversely, a continued decline in the rates we pay to our affiliates and owner-operators could adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing affiliates and owner-operators and attract new affiliates, owner-operators and drivers. We are self-insured and have exposure to certain claims and are subject to the insurance marketplace, all of which could affect our profitability. The primary accident risks associated with our business are: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage, • workers’ compensation claims, • cargo loss and damage, and • general liability claims. We currently maintain insurance for: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage claims, covering all employees, owner operators and affiliates, • workers’ compensation insurance coverage on our employees and company drivers, and • general liability claims. Our insurance program includes a self insured deductible of $2.0 million per incident for bodily injury and property damage and a $1.0 million deductible for workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently maintain insurance policies with a total limit of $40.0 million. The $2.0 million deductible per incident could adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of an increase in the number or severity of incidents. Additionally, we are self-insured for damage to the equipment that we own and lease, for cargo losses, and for non-trucking pollution legal liability and such self-insurance is not subject to any maximum limitation. We extend insurance coverage to our affiliates for (i) motor vehicle related bodily injury, (ii) property damage, (iii) general liability coverage, and (iv) cargo loss and damage. Under this extended coverage, affiliates are responsible for only a small portion of the applicable deductibles. We are subject to changing conditions and pricing in the insurance marketplace and we cannot assure you that the cost or availability of various types of insurance may not change dramatically in the future. To the extent these costs cannot be passed on to our customers in increased freight rates, increases in insurance costs could reduce our future profitability and cash flow. 19 Table of Contents The trucking industry is subject to regulation, and changes in trucking regulations may increase costs. As a motor carrier, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, and the U.S. Department of Transportation or DOT, and by various state, federal and provincial agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers governing activities such as operating authority, safety, hours of service, hazardous materials transportation, financial reporting and acquisitions. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment, product-handling requirements and drug testing of drivers. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Possible changes include: • increasingly stringent environmental regulations, • increasing control over the transportation of hazardous materials, • changes in the hours-of-service regulations, which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, • onboard black box recorder devices, • requirements leading to accelerated purchases of new trailers, • mandatory limits on vehicle weight and size, and • mandatory regulations imposed by the Department of Homeland Security. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. Increased unionization could increase our operating costs or constrain operating flexibility. Although only approximately 4.0% of our driver workforce, including owner-operators and employees of affiliates, were subject to collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 2008, unions such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have traditionally been active in the U.S. trucking industry. Unionized workers could disrupt our operations by strike, work stoppage or other slowdown. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization. Increased unionization of our workforce could result in higher compensation and working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could create environmental liabilities. Our activities, particularly those relating to our handling, transporting and storage of bulk chemicals, are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation by governmental authorities in the United States as well as foreign governmental authorities. Among other things, those environmental laws address emissions to the air, discharges to land or water, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws generally require us to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits. Most environmental laws provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws or regulations will not be identified or occur in the future, or that such laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could impose material costs on us. As a handler of hazardous substances, we are potentially subject to strict, joint and several liability for investigating and rectifying the consequences of spills and other environmental releases of these substances. We 20 Table of Contents have incurred remedial costs and regulatory penalties for chemical or wastewater spills and releases at our facilities or over the road, and, notwithstanding the existence of our environmental management program and insurance applicable to these risks, we expect that additional similar obligations will be incurred in the future. As a result of environmental studies conducted at our facilities or at third party sites, we have identified environmental contamination at certain sites that will require remediation and we are currently conducting investigation and remediation projects at eight of our facilities. Future liabilities and costs under environmental, health, and safety laws are not easily predicted, and such liabilities could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business reputation. In addition, we have been named a potentially responsible party at various sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. Our current reserves provided for these sites may prove insufficient, which would result in future charges against earnings. Further, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites could be material. Potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption of the delivery of ISO tank containers to those ports where we do business would reduce the number of ISO tank containers that we transport, store, clean or maintain. This reduced activity may have a material adverse effect on our operations. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. Political events in the Middle East, Venezuela, and elsewhere, as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events, also may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have recovered the majority of the increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected may not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent fuel surcharges are insufficient to offset our fuel costs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Loss of qualified drivers or other personnel could limit our growth and negatively affect operations. During periods of high trucking volumes, there is substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry. Furthermore, certain geographic areas have a greater shortage of qualified drivers than other areas. We operate in many of the geographic areas where there have been driver shortages in the past and have turned down new business opportunities as a result of the lack of qualified new drivers. Difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, particularly qualified drivers, could require us to increase driver compensation, forego available customer opportunities and underutilize the tractors and trailers in our network. These actions could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. In addition, we may not be able to recruit other qualified personnel in the future. The loss of one or more significant customers may adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon a limited number of large customers. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 30.9% of our total revenues during 2008. In particular, our largest customer, Dow Chemical Company, accounted for 6.5% of our total QCI revenues during 2008. The loss of Dow Chemical Company or one or more of our other major customers, or a material reduction in services performed for such customers, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future war or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks and fingerprinting of drivers in connection with new hazardous materials endorsements on their licenses. Such existing measures and future measures may have significant costs associated with them which a motor carrier is forced to bear. Moreover, large trucks carrying toxic chemicals are a potential terrorist target, and we will be obligated to take measures, including possible capital expenditures, to harden our trucks. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could continue to increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. We depend on members of our senior management. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of our senior management team. If members of senior management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. Our long-lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment A significant portion of our assets consist of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2008, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $196.2 million, or approximately 39.1% of our total assets. In addition, net property and equipment totaled approximately $148.7 million, or approximately 29.6% of our total assets. We review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year, and more often, if a triggering event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2008 indicated no goodwill impairments. No impairment charges were recorded during 2008. If actual results differ from estimates used in these calculations, the Company could incur future (unanticipated) impairment charges. Our restructuring involves risks to our business operations and may not reduce our costs. During 2008, we eliminated non-driver positions, consolidated and closed under-performing company terminals and implemented certain contract terminations. These steps have placed, and will continue to place, pressures on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure as well as on our results of operations. Employees that departed in connection with the restructuring possessed knowledge of our business, skills and relationships with our customers, affiliates, drivers and other employees that were not replaced. As a result, our remaining employees may be required to serve new operational roles in which they have limited experience, which may reduce employee satisfaction and productivity. New relationships may also reduce customer, affiliate or driver satisfaction. Additionally, our restructuring plans and related efforts may divert management’s and other employee’s attention from other business concerns. Due to the restructuring, we took pre-tax charges in 2008 which represent severance-related costs and costs associated with lease and contract terminations. The majority of these costs were cash expenditures paid during 22 Table of Contents 2008 or costs that we expect to pay in the future. Actual costs may exceed our estimates. Furthermore, we have formulated this restructuring plan with the goal of reducing our future operating expenses. Our future operating expenses may not be reduced as we expect, or reductions may be offset in the future by other expenses. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. At March 6, 2009, Apollo and its affiliated funds owned or controlled approximately 53.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matter requiring a vote of shareholders. The interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties, or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Similarly, if our financial performance and creditworthiness significantly improve in the future, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing reorganizations, restructurings, or other transactions that could increase our leverage or impair our creditworthiness or otherwise, in their judgment, enhance Apollo’s equity investment in QDI, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debtholders. We may be unable to identify potential acquisition candidates or realize the intended benefits of consummated acquisitions. We evaluate potential acquisitions from time to time, some of which could be material, and engage in discussions with acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we assure you that our past acquisitions, including our acquisition of Boasso, will be successfully received by customers or achieve their intended benefits. Often acquisitions are undertaken to improve operating results of either or both of the acquirer or the acquired company, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We may be held liable for risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs or liabilities) as a result of acquisitions which we are not aware of at the present time, some of which may not have been discoverable from our due diligence efforts. We will encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management’s attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a majority shareholder who can substantially influence the outcome of all matters voted upon by our shareholders and prevent actions which a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. As of March 6, 2009, Apollo and its affiliated funds owned or controlled approximately 53.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matter requiring a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination which a shareholder, may otherwise view favorably. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and Florida law may prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Florida law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to control a takeover attempt which the Board viewed unfavorably, • elimination of the voting rights of shareholders with respect to shares that are acquired without prior Board approval that would otherwise entitle such shareholder to exercise certain amounts of voting power in the election of directors, and • prohibition on business combinations with interested shareholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 6, 2009, there are approximately 19.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 11.3 million shares of common stock are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or are held by affiliates. In addition, as of March 6, 2009, we have 4.3 million shares of common stock registered for issuance under our stock option plan. Options representing 2.2 million shares were outstanding as of March 6, 2009. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the agreements and indentures governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on one’s investment. This may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 