ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to general and industry specific economic factors that are largely out of our control and could affect our operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on various economic factors over which we have little control, that include: • the availability of qualified drivers, • changes in regulations concerning shipment of material we transport, • increases in fuel taxes and tolls, • interest rate fluctuations, • excess capacity in the tank trucking industry, • changes in license and regulatory fees, • potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry, • downturns in customers’ business cycles, • reduction in customers’ shipping requirements, and • the U.S. economy generally. As a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices and lower profit margins in the future. We have a large number of customers in the chemical-processing and consumer-goods industries. If these customers experience fluctuations in their business activity due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other industry conditions, the volume of freight transported by us on behalf of those customers may decrease. The trucking industry has experienced a slowdown in recent months due to slowing economic conditions. Loss of qualified drivers or other personnel could limit our growth and negatively affect operations. There is substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry. Furthermore, certain geographic areas have a greater shortage of qualified drivers than other areas. We operate in many of these geographic areas where there is a shortage of drivers and have turned down new business opportunities as a result 18 Table of Contents of the lack of qualified new drivers. Difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, particularly qualified drivers, could require us to increase driver compensation, forego available customer opportunities and underutilize the tractors and trailers in our network. These actions could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. In addition, we may not be able to recruit other qualified personnel in the future. Loss of affiliates and owner-operators could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We rely on participants in our affiliate program and independent owner-operators. A reduction in the number of owner-operators, whether due to capital requirements related to the expense of obtaining, operating and maintaining equipment or for other reasons, could have a negative effect on our operations and profitability. Similarly the loss of our more robust affiliates could adversely affect our profitability. Contracts with affiliates are for various terms and contracts with owner-operators may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although affiliates and owner-operators are responsible for paying for their own equipment and other operating costs, significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek a higher percentage of the revenue generated if we are unable to increase our rates commensurately. Conversely, a continued decline in the rates we pay to our affiliates and owner-operators could adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing affiliates and owner-operators and attract new affiliates, owner-operators and drivers. We are self-insured and have exposure to certain claims and are subject to the insurance marketplace, all of which could affect our profitability. The primary accident risks associated with our business are: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage, • workers’ compensation claims, • cargo loss and damage, and • general liability claims. We currently maintain insurance for: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage claims, covering all employees, owner operators and affiliates, • workers’ compensation insurance coverage on our employees and company drivers, and • general liability claims. Our insurance program includes a self insured deductible of $5.0 million per incident for bodily injury and property damage and a $1.0 million deductible for workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently maintain an umbrella insurance policy covering claims in excess of $5 million, up to an aggregate loss of $40 million per incident. The $5 million deductible per incident could adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of an increase in the number or severity of incidents. Additionally, we are self-insured for damage to the equipment that we own and lease, for cargo losses, and for non-trucking pollution legal liability and such self-insurance is not subject to any maximum limitation. We extend insurance coverage to our affiliates for (i) motor vehicle related bodily injury, (ii) property damage, (iii) general liability coverage, and (iv) cargo loss and damage. Under this extended coverage, affiliates are responsible for only a small portion of the applicable deductibles. We are subject to changing conditions and pricing in the insurance marketplace and we cannot assure you that the cost or availability of various types of insurance may not change dramatically in the future. To the extent these costs cannot be passed on to our customers in increased freight rates, increases in insurance costs could reduce our future profitability and cash flow. 19 Table of Contents The trucking industry is subject to regulation, and changes in trucking regulations may increase costs. As a motor carrier, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, and the U.S. Department of Transportation or DOT, and by various state, federal and provincial agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers governing activities such as operating authority, safety, hours of service, hazardous materials transportation, financial reporting and acquisitions. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment, product-handling requirements and drug testing of drivers. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Possible changes include: • increasingly stringent environmental regulations, • increasing control over the transportation of hazardous materials, • changes in the hours-of-service regulations, which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, • onboard black box recorder devices, • requirements leading to accelerated purchases of new trailers, • mandatory limits on vehicle weight and size, and • mandatory regulations imposed by the Department of Homeland Security. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. Increased unionization could increase our operating costs or constrain operating flexibility. Although only approximately 4.4% of our driver workforce, including owner-operators and employees of affiliates, is currently subject to collective bargaining agreements, unions such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have traditionally been active in the U.S. trucking industry. Unionized workers could disrupt our operations by strike, work stoppage or other slowdown. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization. Increased unionization of our workforce could result in higher compensation and working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could create environmental liabilities. Our activities, particularly those relating to our handling, transporting and storage of bulk chemicals, are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation by governmental authorities in the United States as well as foreign governmental authorities. Among other things, those environmental laws address emissions to the air, discharges to land or water, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws generally require us to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits. Most environmental laws provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws or regulations will not be identified or occur in the future, or that such laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could impose material costs on us. As a handler of hazardous substances, we are potentially subject to strict, joint and several liability for investigating and rectifying the consequences of spills and other environmental releases of these substances. We have incurred remedial costs and regulatory penalties for chemical or wastewater spills and releases at our 20 Table of Contents facilities or over the road, and, notwithstanding the existence of our environmental management program and insurance applicable to these risks, we expect that additional similar obligations will be incurred in the future. As a result of environmental studies conducted at our facilities or at third party sites, we have identified environmental contamination at certain sites that will require remediation and we are currently conducting investigation and remediation projects at eight of our facilities. Future liabilities and costs under environmental, health, and safety laws are not easily predicted, and such liabilities could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business reputation. In addition, we have been named a potentially responsible party at various sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended and other similar state statutes including the Lower Passaic River Study Area in New Jersey, the Malone Superfund Site in Texas, and at two Quanta Resources sites in New York. Our current reserves provided for these sites may prove insufficient, which would result in future charges against earnings. Further, we could be named a PRP at other sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites could be material. Potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption of the delivery of ISO tank containers to those ports where we do business would reduce the number of ISO tank containers that we transport, store, clean or maintain. This reduced activity may have a material adverse effect on our operations. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. Political events in the Middle East, Venezuela, and elsewhere, as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events, also may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have recovered the majority of the increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected may not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent fuel surcharges are insufficient to offset our fuel costs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our substantial leverage and restrictions contained in our debt agreements, including our credit facility and our indentures, could hamper our operations. At December 31, 2007, we had consolidated long-term indebtedness, including current maturities of long-term debt, of $353.7 million. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • using a portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our indebtedness will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities, • it increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, • it limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, • it limits our ability in making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities, and • it limits our operational flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds. Our variable interest rate debt was $219.1 million as of December 31, 2007. Therefore, increases in market rates of interest will increase our interest expense, which would decrease our earnings. A 1% increase in the interest rate for our variable debt would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.2 million. 21 Table of Contents The loss of one or more significant customers may adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon a limited number of large customers. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 34.1% of our total revenues during 2007. In particular, our largest customer, Dow Chemical Company, accounted for 8.3% of our total revenues during 2007. The loss of Dow Chemical Company or one or more of our other major customers, or a material reduction in services performed for such customers, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future war or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks and fingerprinting of drivers in connection with new hazardous materials endorsements on their licenses. Such existing measures and future measures may have significant costs associated with them which a motor carrier is forced to bear. Moreover, large trucks carrying toxic chemicals are a potential terrorist target, and we will be obligated to take measures, including possible capital expenditures, to harden our trucks. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could continue to increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. Although we expect the Boasso acquisition to be beneficial, its expected benefits may not be realized, in the time frame anticipated or at all, because of integration or other challenges and we may become liable for liabilities of which we are currently unaware. Achieving the expected benefits of the Boasso acquisition will depend on the timely and efficient integration of Boasso’s operations, business culture, technology and personnel with our Company. The integration may not be completed as quickly as expected, and if we fail to effectively integrate the companies or the integration takes longer than expected, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition. The challenges involved in this integration include, among others: • potential disruption on our ongoing business and distraction of management, • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of Boasso, • conforming Boasso’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, • hiring additional management and other critical personnel, and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. We conducted a due diligence investigation of Boasso’s operations prior to agreeing to acquire Boasso. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts were sufficient to uncover all material information concerning such operations. As a result, we may be held liable for risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs or liabilities) as a result of such acquisition which we are not aware of at the present time, some of which may not have been discoverable from our due diligence efforts. Boasso’s operations also depend upon a limited number of large customers. For its fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, four customers accounted for approximately 42% of their total revenues. Boasso’s largest customer, Stolt-Nielsen S.A. accounted for approximately 19% of its total revenues. The loss of Stolt-Nielsen S.A. or one or more of Boasso’s other major customers, or a material reduction in services performed for such customers, may have a material adverse effect on Boasso’s results of operations. Boasso’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of its management team. If members of management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present capacity, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We depend on members of our senior management. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of our senior management team. If members of senior management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. Interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. At March 1, 2008, Apollo owned or controlled approximately 54.7% of our common stock and approximately 46.6% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matter requiring a vote of shareholders. The interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties, or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Similarly, if our financial performance and creditworthiness significantly improve in the future, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing reorganizations, restructurings, or other transactions that could increase our leverage or impair our creditworthiness or otherwise, in their judgment, enhance Apollo’s equity investment in QDI, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debtholders. We may be unable to identify or realize the intended benefits of other potential acquisition candidates As part of our business strategy, we will evaluate other potential acquisitions, some of which could be material, and engage in discussions with acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we assure you that our acquisition strategies will be successfully received by customers or achieve their intended benefits. Often acquisitions are undertaken to improve operating results of either or both of the acquirer or the acquired company, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We will encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management’s attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a majority shareholder who can substantially influence the outcome of all matters voted upon by our shareholders and prevent actions which a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. As of March 1, 2008, Apollo and its affiliated funds owned or controlled approximately 54.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matter requiring a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination which a shareholder, may otherwise view favorably. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and Florida law may prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Florida law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to control a takeover attempt which the Board viewed unfavorably, • elimination of the voting rights of shareholders with respect to shares that are acquired without prior Board approval that would otherwise entitle such shareholder to exercise certain amounts of voting power in the election of directors, and • prohibition on business combinations with interested shareholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2008, there are approximately 19.3 million shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 11.1 million shares of common stock are either “restricted securities” or affiliate securities as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have an effective shelf-registration statement on Form S-3 that would permit us to sell, from time to time, in a public offering up to 6 million newly issued shares of common stock and enables Apollo and other parties to publicly resell up to 10.5 million shares of the our common stock held by such parties. In addition, as of March 1, 2008, we have 3.9 million shares of common stock registered for issuance under our stock option plan. Options representing 3.0 million shares were outstanding as of March 1, 2008. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the agreements and indentures governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment. This may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 