ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to general and industry specific economic factors that are largely out of our control and could affect our operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on various economic factors over which we have little control, that include: • the availability of qualified drivers, • access to the credit and capital markets, • changes in regulations concerning shipment and storage of material we transport and depot, • increases in fuel prices, taxes and tolls, • interest rate fluctuations, • excess capacity in the tank trucking industry, • changes in license and regulatory fees, • potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry, • downturns in customers’ business cycles, and • reductions in customers’ shipping requirements. As a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices, lower profit margins and less availability of cash in the future. We have a large number of customers in the chemical-processing and consumer-goods industries. If these customers experience fluctuations in their business activity due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other industry conditions, the volume of freight transported by us or container services provided by us on behalf of those customers may decrease. The trucking industry has experienced a slowdown due to lower demand resulting from slowing economic conditions through 2008 and 2009. We expect these weak conditions to continue in 2010. 13 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our asset-based loan facility (“the ABL Facility”) and the indentures governing our 10% Senior Notes due 2013 (the “2013 Senior Notes”) and our 11.75% Senior Subordinated PIK Notes due 2013 (the “2013 PIK Notes”) contain covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • redeem, repurchase, make payments on or retire subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create or incur liens; • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. These covenants may prohibit or impair us from taking actions that we believe are best for our business. Further, under the ABL Facility we may be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those ratios. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements limit our use of proceeds from our ordinary operations and from extraordinary transactions. These limits may require us to apply proceeds in a certain manner or prohibit us from utilizing the proceeds in our operations or from prepaying or retiring indebtedness that we desire. A failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in the ABL Facility or our other indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default, the lenders of the defaulted indebtedness: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us under the ABL Facility; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due immediately and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay amounts under the ABL Facility, the lenders under the ABL Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We have substantial indebtedness and may not be able to make required payments on our indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, we had consolidated long-term indebtedness and capital lease obligations, including current maturities, of $321.3 million, most of which matures during the next five years. We must make regular payments under the ABL Facility and our capital leases, and semi-annual and quarterly interest payments under our outstanding notes. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we are required to make regular redemptions of our 2013 Senior Notes. Our 2013 Senior Notes and 2013 PIK Notes issued in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 carry higher rates of interest and higher cash rates of interest than the notes for which they were exchanged. In addition, interest on amounts borrowed under our ABL Facility is variable and will increase as market rates of interest 14 Table of Contents increase. Our higher interest expense may reduce our future profitability. Our future higher interest expense and future redemption obligations could have other important consequences with respect to our ability to manage our business successfully, including the following: • it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations for our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with these obligations could result in an event of default; • using a portion of our cash flow to make interest or redemption payments on our indebtedness will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; • it increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • it limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • it may make us more vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the economy; and • it limits our ability to exploit business opportunities. Our 9% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010 (the “9% Notes”) mature November 15, 2010. The ABL Facility matures June 18, 2013. However, the maturity date of the ABL Facility may be accelerated if we default on our obligations under the ABL Facility. If the maturity of the ABL Facility is accelerated, we do not believe that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the ABL Facility or, unless conditions in the credit markets improve significantly, that we will be able to refinance the ABL Facility on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to repay or refinance the ABL Facility at final maturity will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, would cause substantial liquidity problems and may result in the bankruptcy of us and/or our subsidiaries. Any actual or potential bankruptcy or liquidity crisis may materially harm our relationships with our customers, suppliers and affiliates. Our ability to satisfy our interest, redemption and principal payment obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by many factors beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under the ABL Facility, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the ABL Facility. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not be able to draw under the ABL Facility, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness or fund our operations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If we are not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all or for sufficient proceeds, we could default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our reliance upon affiliates and independent owner-operators could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We rely heavily upon participants in our affiliate program and independent owner-operators to perform the services for which we contract with our customers. A reduction in the number of independent owner-operators, 15 Table of Contents whether due to capital requirements related to the expense of obtaining, operating and maintaining equipment or for other reasons, could have a negative effect on our operations and profitability. Similarly the loss of one or more affiliates could adversely affect our profitability. Contracts with affiliates are for various terms and contracts with independent owner-operators may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although affiliates and independent owner-operators are responsible for paying for their own equipment and other operating costs, significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek a higher percentage of the revenue generated if we are unable to increase our rates commensurately. A continued decline in the rates we pay to our affiliates and independent owner-operators could adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing affiliates and independent owner-operators and attract new affiliates, independent owner-operators and drivers. Disagreements with affiliates or independent owner-operators as to payment or other terms, or the failure of a key affiliate to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise perform consistent with our requirements may require us to utilize alternative suppliers, in each case at potentially higher prices or with disruption of the services that we provide to our customers. If we fail to deliver on time or if the costs of our services increase, then our profitability and customer relationships could be harmed. Although our affiliates and independent owner-operators have substantial contractual obligations to us, we do not control them. These affiliates and independent owner-operators typically utilize tractors and trailers bearing our tradenames and trademarks. To the extent that one of our affiliates or independent owner-operators are subject to negative publicity, they could be confused with us and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are self-insured and have exposure to certain claims and are subject to the insurance marketplace, all of which could affect our profitability. The primary accident risks associated with our business are: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage, • workers’ compensation claims, • cargo loss and damage, and • general liability claims. We currently maintain insurance for: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage claims, covering all employees, owner operators and affiliates, • workers’ compensation insurance coverage on our employees and company drivers, and • general liability claims. Our insurance program includes a self insured deductible of $2.0 million per incident for bodily injury and property damage and a $1.0 million deductible for workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently maintain insurance policies with a total limit of $40.0 million. The $2.0 million deductible per incident could adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of an increase in the number or severity of incidents. Additionally, we are self-insured for damage to the equipment that we own and lease, for cargo losses and such self-insurance is not subject to any maximum limitation. We extend insurance coverage to our affiliates for (i) motor vehicle related bodily injury, (ii) property damage, and (iii) cargo loss and damage. Under this extended coverage, affiliates are responsible for only a small portion of the applicable deductibles. We are subject to changing conditions and pricing in the insurance marketplace and we cannot assure you that the cost or availability of various types of insurance may not change dramatically in the future. To the extent these costs cannot be passed on to our customers in increased freight rates, increases in insurance costs could reduce our future profitability and cash flow. 16 Table of Contents The trucking industry is subject to regulation, and changes in trucking regulations may increase costs. As a motor carrier, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state, federal and provincial agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers governing activities such as operating authority, safety, hours of service, hazardous materials transportation, financial reporting and acquisitions. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment, product-handling requirements and drug testing of drivers. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices, emissions or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Possible changes include: • increasingly stringent environmental regulations, including changes intended to address climate change, • restrictions, taxes or other controls on emissions, • increasing control over the transportation of hazardous materials, • changes in the hours-of-service regulations, which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, • onboard black box recorder devices, • requirements leading to accelerated purchases of new trailers, • mandatory limits on vehicle weight and size, and • mandatory regulations imposed by the Department of Homeland Security. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels and emissions, which may increase our operating costs, require capital expenditures or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. Restrictions on emissions or other climate change laws or regulations could also affect our customers that use significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels in producing or delivering the products we carry. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. Increased unionization could increase our operating costs or constrain operating flexibility. Although only approximately 3.1% of our driver population, including independent owner-operators and employees of affiliates, was subject to collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 2009, unions such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have traditionally been active in the U.S. trucking industry. Unionized workers could disrupt our operations by strike, work stoppage or other slowdown. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization. Increased unionization of our workforce could result in higher compensation and working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could create environmental liabilities. Our activities, particularly those relating to our handling, transporting and storage of bulk chemicals, are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation by governmental authorities in the United States as well as foreign governmental authorities. Among other things, these environmental laws and regulations address emissions to the air, discharges on land and in water, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws generally require us to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits. Most environmental laws provide for substantial 17 Table of Contents fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws, regulations, permits or licenses will not be identified or occur in the future, or that such laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could impose material costs on us. As a handler of hazardous substances, we are potentially subject to strict, joint and several liability for investigating and rectifying the consequences of spills and other environmental releases of these substances. We have incurred remedial costs and regulatory penalties for chemical or wastewater spills and releases at our facilities or over the road. As a result of environmental studies conducted at our facilities or at third party sites, we have identified environmental contamination at certain sites that will require remediation and we are currently conducting investigation and remediation projects at seven of our facilities. Future liabilities and costs under environmental, health, and safety laws are not easily predicted, and such liabilities could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business reputation. In addition, we have been named a potentially responsible party at various sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental regulatory programs. Our current reserves provided for these sites may prove insufficient, which would result in future charges against earnings. Further, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites could be material. Potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption of the delivery of ISO tank containers to those ports where we do business would reduce the number of ISO tank containers that we transport, store, clean or maintain. This reduced activity may have a material adverse effect on our operations. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. Political events in the Middle East, Venezuela, and elsewhere, as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events, and current and future market-based (cap-and-trade) greenhouse gas emissions control mechanisms, also may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have recovered the majority of the increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected may not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent fuel surcharges are insufficient to offset our fuel costs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Loss of qualified drivers or other personnel could limit our growth and negatively affect operations. During periods of high trucking volumes, there is substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry. Furthermore, certain geographic areas have a greater shortage of qualified drivers than other areas. We operate in many of the geographic areas where there have been driver shortages in the past and have turned down new business opportunities as a result of the lack of qualified new drivers. Difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, particularly qualified drivers, could require us to increase driver compensation, forego available customer opportunities and underutilize the tractors and trailers in our network. These actions could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. In addition, we may not be able to recruit other qualified personnel in the future. 18 Table of Contents The loss of one or more significant customers may adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon a limited number of large customers. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 32.4% of our total revenues during 2009. The loss of one or more of our other major customers, or a material reduction in services performed for such customers, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future wars or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks and fingerprinting of drivers in connection with new hazardous materials endorsements on their licenses. Such existing measures and future measures may have significant costs associated with them which a motor carrier is forced to bear. Moreover, large trucks carrying toxic chemicals are a potential terrorist target, and we may be obligated to take measures, including possible capital expenditures intended to protect our trucks. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could continue to increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. We depend on members of our senior management. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of our senior management team. If members of senior management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. Our long-lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $45.5 million, or approximately 16.3% of our total assets and approximately 24.5% of our non-current assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. In addition, net property and equipment totaled approximately $127.3 million, or approximately 45.5% of our total assets. We review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year with a measurement date of June 30, and more often if a triggering event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2009 indicated there was goodwill impairment. As a result of the analysis, we concluded that a total impairment charge to goodwill of $146.2 million was necessary at June 30, 2009, of which $144.3 million was related to our trucking segment, eliminating 100% of the carrying amount of goodwill, and $1.9 million was related to our container services segment. If there are changes to the methods used to allocate carrying values, if management’s estimates of future operating results change, if there are changes in the identified reporting units or if there are changes to other significant assumptions, the estimated carrying values and the estimated fair value of our goodwill could change significantly, and could result in future impairment charges, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Our restructuring involves risks to our business operations and may not reduce our costs. During 2008 and 2009, we eliminated non-driver positions, consolidated and closed under-performing company terminals, implemented certain contract terminations, transitioned company-owned terminals to affiliates and took other measures intended to reduce future costs. These steps have placed, and will continue to place, pressures on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure as well as on our results of operations. Employees that departed in connection with the restructuring possessed knowledge of our business, skills and relationships with our customers, affiliates, drivers and other employees that were not replaced. As a result, our remaining employees may be required to serve new operational roles in which they have limited experience, which may reduce employee satisfaction and productivity. New relationships may also reduce customer, affiliate or driver satisfaction. Additionally, our restructuring plans and related efforts may divert management’s and other employee’s attention from other business concerns. Due to the restructuring, we took pre-tax charges in 2008 and 2009, which represent severance-related costs and costs associated with lease and contract terminations. The majority of these costs were cash expenditures paid during 2008 and 2009 or costs that we expect to pay in the future. Actual costs may exceed our estimates, and we expect to take additional charges in 2010. Furthermore, we have formulated this restructuring plan with the goal of reducing our future operating expenses. Our future operating expenses may not be reduced as we expect, or reductions may be offset in the future by other expenses. In addition, risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. At March 8, 2010, Apollo and its affiliated funds owned or controlled approximately 52.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions and the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer. The interests of Apollo may conflict with your interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties, or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Similarly, if our financial performance and creditworthiness significantly improve in the future, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing reorganizations, restructurings, or other transactions that could increase our leverage or impair our creditworthiness or otherwise, in their judgment, enhance Apollo’s equity investment in QDI, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a majority shareholder who can substantially influence the outcome of all matters voted upon by our shareholders and prevent actions which a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. As of March 8, 2010, Apollo and its affiliated funds owned or controlled approximately 52.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matter requiring a vote of shareholders. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination which a shareholder, may otherwise view favorably. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and Florida law may prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Florida law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to control a takeover attempt which the Board viewed unfavorably, • elimination of the voting rights of shareholders with respect to shares that are acquired without prior Board approval that would otherwise entitle such shareholder to exercise certain amounts of voting power in the election of directors, and • prohibition on business combinations with interested shareholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and result in dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 8, 2010, there are approximately 20.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 11.7 million shares of common stock are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or are held by affiliates. In addition, as of March 8, 2010, we have 3.1 million shares of common stock available for issuance under our stock option plan. As of March 8, 2010, there were outstanding options for 2.2 million shares and warrants for 1.75 million shares of our common stock. Exercise of the warrants and of options that are in-the-money will result in dilution to existing shareholders in an amount equal to the difference in the market and exercise prices multiplied by the number of shares exercised. In addition, prior to their exercise, these options and warrants may depress the market price for our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the ABL Facility and indentures governing our 2013 Senior Notes and 2013 PIK Notes contain certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on one’s investment. This may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 