Risk Factors 10 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 2. Properties 16 3. Legal Proceedings 17 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 19 Part II 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 6. Selected Financial Data 23 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 9B. Other Information 43 Part III 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 44 11. Executive Compensation 44 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 44 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 44 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 44 Part IV 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Signatures 52 Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note dated April 9, 2004 Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note dated April 29, 2004 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification Pursuant to Section 906 i Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are often characterized by the terms “may,” “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “target,” and other words and terms of similar meaning and do not reflect historical facts. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. In addition, factors that could affect the business and financial results of Virbac Corporation (the “Company” or “Virbac”) include, but are not limited to, the following: the results of research and development activities; decisions by regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), regarding whether and when to approve Virbac’s drug applications as well as their decisions regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the commercial potential of Virbac’s products and services; trade buying patterns; the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection for Virbac’s products; changes or trends in veterinary medicine that affect the rate of use of the Company’s products by veterinarians; legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, and the risk of an adverse decision or settlement related to product liability, patent protection, governmental investigations, and other legal proceedings; the Company’s ability to protect its patents and other intellectual property both domestically and internationally; governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including tax obligations; any changes in business, political, and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military action overseas; and uncertainties regarding the Company’s ability to comply with financial and other covenants required under its credit agreement. Virbac does not intend to update these forward-looking statements to reflect actual future events. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Background The business now operated by Virbac and its wholly-owned subsidiaries was initiated in 1993, when Agri-Nutrition Group Limited, a Delaware corporation (“Agri-Nutrition”) acquired the animal health industries business of Purina Mills, Inc. In July 1994, Agri-Nutrition completed an initial public offering of its common stock. On October 16, 1998, Agri-Nutrition entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended, (the “Merger Agreement”) with Virbac S.A., a French corporation engaged in the veterinary pharmaceutical manufacturing business (“VBSA”), Virbac, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( “Virbac Inc.”), and Interlab S.A.S., a French corporation ( “Interlab”), pursuant to which Virbac Inc. was merged with and into Agri-Nutrition (the “Merger”) with Agri-Nutrition being the surviving corporation. At the effective date of the Merger, March 5, 1999, Virbac Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Interlab and Interlab was a wholly-owned subsidiary of VBSA. Upon consummation of the Merger, Agri-Nutrition changed its name to “Virbac Corporation.” Pursuant to the Merger, the issued and outstanding shares of Virbac Inc. common stock, then held by Interlab, automatically converted into the right to receive 12,580,918 shares of the Company’s Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share (the “Common Stock”), or approximately 58% of the outstanding Common Stock after the effective date of the Merger. Moreover, the Merger Agreement required the Company to complete a tender offer to repurchase up to 1,000,000 shares of the Common Stock at a price of $3.00 per share within 60 days after the effective date of the Merger. The Company repurchased all 1,000,000 shares and, as a result, VBSA indirectly owned approximately 60% of the outstanding 1 Table of Contents Common Stock after the Merger; therefore, Virbac Inc. was considered the acquirer of Agri-Nutrition in a purchase business combination for financial reporting purposes. The Merger Agreement further provides that in order to maintain Interlab’s proportionate ownership interest in the Company until the expiration, termination, or exercise of all options to purchase the Common Stock outstanding as of the date of the Merger, the Company will contemporaneously, with the issuance of the Common Stock upon the exercise of pre-Merger options to purchase the Common Stock, issue to Interlab a number of additional shares of the Common Stock equal to the product of (a) the aggregate number of shares of the Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such Company options and (b) 1.5. Consequently, VBSA, through Interlab, indirectly owns approximately 60% of the outstanding Common Stock. Business Overview Virbac, based in Fort Worth, Texas, develops, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells a variety of pet and companion animal health products, focusing on dermatological, parasiticidal, dental and certain pharmaceutical products as well as products intended for use by livestock. The Company has three reportable segments: the Veterinary segment, which provides animal health products to veterinary clinics throughout North America; the Consumer Brand segment, which sells over-the-counter products for companion animal health to national accounts, distributors and wholesalers; and the Contract Manufacturing segment which offers a broad range of services and specialized expertise in the manufacture of highly regulated animal health products. The Contract Manufacturing segment operates as PM Resources, Inc., a Missouri corporation (“PMR”), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. PMR is based in a 176,000 square-foot facility in Bridgeton, Missouri, which is registered with the FDA and the EPA. PMR formulates products under private-label and provides third party contract manufacturing services of products for use in the animal health and specialty chemical industries, including products for over 20 international, national and regional veterinary pharmaceutical companies. Detailed operating results for the Company’s segments may be found in Note 16. “Segment and Related Information” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Virbac has developed its product portfolio through acquisitions, licensing arrangements and internal development activities. The Company distributes and sells its products throughout the United States and Canada and, through its distribution agreement with VBSA, in other foreign markets. Virbac has the exclusive North American manufacturing and distribution rights to any new or existing products developed by VBSA that are intended for companion animals and livestock, for which it pays royalties to VBSA ranging from 2.0% to 6.0% of its sales of such products. Royalties of $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.1 million were paid to VBSA in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Additionally, some of the Company’s products are manufactured and distributed under licenses granted by VBSA. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further information. Products The Company’s products are used to promote the health and hygiene of companion animals – primarily, dogs, cats, fish and certain livestock. The principal products manufactured by the Company include: • Dermatological products for dogs and cats, including anti-itch, anti-microbial, and anti-inflammatory lotions and shampoos; • Oral hygiene products for dogs and cats, including toothpaste and toothbrushes, sprays, oral rinses, enzymatic rawhide chews and chlorhexidine rawhide chews; • Flea and tick products, including collars, shampoos and dip concentrates; • Canine heartworm preventives; • Ear cleaners; 2 Table of Contents • Endocrinology treatments, including canine thyroid replacements; • Humane euthanasia drugs, for veterinary purposes only; • Aquarium water conditioners, medications and test strips; • Pest control products, including rodenticides; • Nutritional supplements to promote healthy coat and skin; • Gastrointestinal products for dogs and cats, including hairball remedies; • Specialty chemicals; and • Equine anti-parasitics. Sales and Marketing Strategy The Company’s product marketing strategy varies for each of its three segments. Following is a discussion of each segment. Veterinary Segment The Company manufactures a significant amount of its pharmaceutical products that are sold in the veterinary channel and also purchases finished product directly from outside third party manufacturers. This segment’s marketing and sales promotions target veterinarians through education and sampling to encourage veterinarians to prescribe and sell more of the Company’s products. The Company’s principal veterinary line labels are ALLERDERM® dermatological products, C.E.T.® dental products, IVERHART® PLUS canine heartworm preventive, SOLOXINE® endocrinology products and PREVENTIC® tick collars. This segment generated 57%, 51% and 45% of the Company’s revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Members of a veterinary distributor consortium, named Vedco, Inc. (“Vedco”), represent the Company’s largest group of customers and accounted for approximately 21%, 17% and 20% of revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Before formation of the Vedco consortium, individual members of the Vedco group purchased products directly from Virbac, rather than through the consortium. In the event the Vedco consortium disbands or discontinues purchasing Virbac products, there could be a material adverse effect on the operating results of Virbac’s Veterinary segment. However, the Company believes that individual members of the consortium would have the ability to purchase directly from the Company, which would substantially mitigate the loss of the purchases by Vedco. Consumer Brand Segment The Consumer Brand segment offers more than 300 products for sale to pet specialty retail stores, superstores, mass merchandisers and farm and fleet stores. Under the Company’s principal consumer brand labels of Petrodex®, Mardel®, Petromalt®, Francodexâ, Zema®, Healthy Companion® and Pet Relief®, the Company sells health care products for dogs, cats, horses, tropical fish, birds and various other animals. Some of these products are manufactured by Virbac, while others are contract manufactured by third parties or purchased. The promotion of the Company’s Consumer Brand segment is principally focused on obtaining shelf space in store locations by creating consumer brand awareness and demand. Additionally, this segment distributes animal health and pest control products under the Earth City Resources label to retailers and the farm market, as well as rural, and urban feed retailers. The Consumer Brand segment also distributes private label products, principally pest control products, whereby the Company produces the product and then labels it with the customer’s label for distribution in the retail channel. The Consumer Brand segment generated 27%, 28% and 34% of the Company’s revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company also markets and sells its Veterinary and Consumer Brand segment products in Canada and markets outside the U.S. The Company sells its products directly to its Canadian customers. 3 Table of Contents Canadian sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and totaled $1.8 million, $1.2 million and $1.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Virbac’s Veterinary and Consumer Brand segment products are generally sold in markets outside the U.S. and Canada directly to customers through a distribution agreement with VBSA and its affiliates. These export sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and amounted to $2.4 million, $1.7 million and $2.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Item 1. “Business, Distribution” below for a further discussion. Contract Manufacturing Segment The Contract Manufacturing segment’s services include a broad range of formulation, development, manufacturing, packaging and distribution activities related to products that are generally highly regulated pharmaceuticals and pesticides for significant animal health and specialty chemical customers. The Company holds over 140 FDA and EPA product registrations and site approvals that are required to perform these services. The Contract Manufacturing segment generated 16%, 21% and 21% of the Company’s revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For further information on the seasonality of the Company’s products, segment performance and financial information on the Company’s segments, refer to Item 7. “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 16. “Segment and Related Information” of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, respectively. Distribution The Company utilizes different distribution channels for each of its three segments. In the Veterinary segment, which has its own sales force, the products are generally shipped from the Company to distributors who sell principally to veterinarians. For the Consumer Brand segment, which also has its own sales force, the Company sells primarily to large multi-chain retail stores or large pet-store distributors who then sell to smaller retail pet and pet supply stores. The Company’s Contract Manufacturing segment either ships the product directly to the customer or to a destination chosen by the customer and in some cases the customer will arrange for their own delivery. As previously mentioned, Virbac has entered into an agreement with VBSA for the distribution of its products in markets outside of the United and Canada. The terms of the distribution agreement provide that VBSA and its affiliates are the sole and exclusive distributors of the Company’s current and future range of specified pet health care products for all channels of trade worldwide other than the United States and Canada. The Company agrees to manufacture the products and VBSA agrees to use its best efforts to promote, sell and distribute the Company’s products internationally. The Company can distribute directly to certain customers at the election of VBSA. On December 2, 2004, the distribution agreement automatically renewed for a second 5-year term. The current terms of the distribution agreement provide that VBSA’s purchase price of products be fixed at 12.6% over the Company’s current cost. Virbac recorded $1.2 million of product sales to VBSA and its affiliates under the distribution agreement during each of 2005, 2004 and 2003. Research and Development The Company’s research and development activities focus on developing highly regulated proprietary and generic products mainly for the pet and companion animal market. The Company develops formulas adapted to the needs of companion animals, either from off-patent compounds or proprietary compounds licensed from others. The Company’s research and development activities also include developing less regulated cosmetic products, mainly dermatological and oral hygiene products. The Company maintains a regulatory department that is responsible for maintaining the required product dossiers with the various regulatory agencies. The Company believes it is a leader in pet dermatology and 4 Table of Contents oral hygiene product development and believes it holds a market leadership position in these product categories. The Company frequently collaborates with third parties to perform certain research studies and developmental activities. The Company has collaborated, and continues to collaborate with not only other companies, but also with veterinary specialists, universities, and other private practice veterinarians to evaluate products in development and to validate the utility of the Company’s existing products in the marketplace. The costs of these services are expensed as incurred and are included in the Company’s research and development expenses. In developing new or improved products, the Company considers a variety of factors, including (i) existing or potential marketing opportunities for such products; (ii) the capability of the Company to manufacture the products; (iii) whether such new or improved products complement its existing products; (iv) the possibility of leveraging such products with the development of additional products, and (v) the risks and potential for successfully achieving marketing approval by the relevant regulatory agency. The Company spent approximately $3.3 million, $3.3 million and $4.9 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, on research and development. Virbac also conducts research on VBSA products that have the potential to be distributed in North America. VBSA maintains research and development facilities, which are dedicated exclusively to researching animal health products. These facilities have developed more than 1,000 products for the prevention and treatment of animal health diseases. In many instances, the Company’s manufacturing and distribution rights to such products have served to reduce the time to market and cost of regulator approval in North America. See Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further information. In addition to developing its own products and obtaining the North American manufacturing and distribution rights to products developed by VBSA, the Company has significantly expanded its product portfolio through purchases of North American and worldwide manufacturing and distribution rights to certain products developed by third parties. Registrations, Trademarks and Patents The Company considers its intellectual property protection to be material to its ability to successfully commercialize its life-sciences innovations and to protect the capital investments the Company makes in those innovations. The Company owns or licenses a number of patents relating to products, product uses, formulations and manufacturing processes. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. The Company holds patents for technologies such as pet toothbrushes, pet shampoos and the systemic and topical control of parasites. The remaining lives of the various patents range from five to 14 years. The Company also has exclusive licenses to use other patents including enzyme generation formulae for use in animal toothpaste and rawhide chews; insect growth regulators; VBSA’s Spherulite® technology, which provides for the prolonged delivery of active ingredients contained in various products; and others. The license agreements held by the Company have remaining lives ranging from five to 14 years. The Company holds numerous trademarks relating primarily to its Veterinary and Consumer Brand segment products, including PetRelief®, Petrodex®, Petromalt®, Mardel®, Zema®, ALLERDERM®, SOLOXINE®, Euthasol®, IVERHART® PLUS, and C.E.T.®. Virbac also has permission to use trademarks held by VBSA including Healthy Companion®, Francodex® and PREVENTIC®. 5 Table of Contents Procurement of Raw Materials and Finished Goods The active ingredients in the Company’s products are generally purchased from large suppliers. The Company generally purchases materials on an as-needed basis, as it is usually unnecessary for the Company to maintain large inventories of such materials. The Company purchases certain raw materials from multiple suppliers; some materials, however, are proprietary, and may only be acquired from one source. The Company also purchases certain raw materials, the availability of which are subject to EPA, FDA, or other regulatory approvals. Some of the Company’s contract manufacturing customers provide the Company with the raw materials used in the production of the customer’s products. Additionally, the Company also purchases certain finished products from outside manufacturers under supply agreements. The Company considers its relationships with its suppliers to be good. Competition The Company’s competitors generally fall into four categories: (i) pet care product producers and suppliers; (ii) animal health product distributors; (iii) manufacturers, formulators and blenders of animal health products; and (iv) specialty chemical and pest control manufacturers. The Company faces intense competition in that many of its competitors are larger and have significantly more financial resources than the Company. Moreover, regulatory surveillance and enforcement are accelerating, which is likely to result in only a few competitors that individually possess significantly greater resources than others in the market. Each of the Company’s three segments competes in its respective market based on differing criteria. Many of the Company’s products in the Veterinary segment are highly regulated. While there is a large group of competitors in the veterinary market, the Company believes that others are deterred from entering the market due to regulatory requirements. The Veterinary segment competes based on high quality products with premium value and pricing. For some product lines, such as dermatology and dentistry, the Company holds a significant portion of the market share. For other product lines within the veterinary market, such as heartworm medications and nutraceuticals (a food or naturally occurring food supplement thought to have a beneficial effect on pet health), the Company holds only a small portion of the market share. The Consumer Brand segment competes based on the market’s expectation of consumer brand awareness, price and quality. The Company does not hold a significant portion of the market in the Consumer Brand segment but has strength in this segment’s product offerings. The Consumer Brand segment has strong relations with pet supply stores nationwide. Competitors in this segment range from large national companies to small regional companies. Competition in the Contract Manufacturing segment is based on price and service. Due to capital demands and governmental requirements for certain products manufactured by the Company, there are few significant competitors in this market. Price, along with the ability of the Company to quickly adapt its facilities in order to provide service, is a competitive advantage. Regulatory and Environmental Matters The Company’s operations subject it to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to health and safety and environmental affairs. These laws and regulations are administered by the EPA, the FDA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation, and various state and local regulatory agencies. Governmental authorities, and, in some cases, third parties, have the power to enforce compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and violators may be subject to sanctions, including civil and criminal action, fines or penalties, orders and injunctions. Although the Company has been notified by state agencies from time to time of violations of 6 Table of Contents these laws or regulations, the Company believes it has taken action to respond appropriately in each instance. The Company does not believe any of these violations has had or will have a material adverse effect on the Company. While the Company believes that the procedures currently in effect and operations at its facilities are consistent with industry standards, and that these are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, failure to comply with such laws and regulations or significant changes in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Product Regulation The federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of veterinary pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved products or products that are not in compliance and to halt any manufacturing operations that do not comply with applicable laws and regulations. Any such restrictions or prohibitions on sales, or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by Virbac, could have a material adverse effect on Virbac’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. While Virbac believes that all of its current pharmaceuticals are in compliance with applicable FDA regulations and has received required government approvals for the manufacture and sale of such pharmaceuticals, approvals are subject to revocation by the applicable government agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are, in many circumstances, subject to additional approvals, which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Virbac’s manufacturing facilities are subject to continual inspection by regulatory agencies, and manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in either such facility as a result of such inspections. If previously received regulatory approvals were subsequently revoked, any such revocations could have a material adverse effect on Virbac’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The product development and approval process, within applicable regulatory frameworks, may take a number of years to successfully complete and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Additional government regulation may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of any one or more of Virbac’s products. Delays or rejections in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect Virbac’s ability to commercialize any product Virbac develops and would limit Virbac’s ability to receive product revenues or royalties. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. The Company has numerous EPA and FDA product registrations. Its EPA product registrations permit it to sell pesticide and rodenticide products, as well as ectoparasiticide products for the treatment of fleas and ticks on dogs and cats. While EPA registrations do not expire, registrants are required to periodically re-register certain products with the EPA. The Company’s Bridgeton, Missouri facility is qualified as an EPA-registered manufacturing site, which permits the Company to manufacture products not only under its own EPA product registrations, but also under the registrations of other companies. The Company’s FDA-approved new animal drug applications (“NADAs”) permit it to sell medicated treatments, anthelmintics, feed additives and other animal drug products. NADAs do not expire, but are subject to review and modification or withdrawal by the FDA based upon the related drugs’ performance in the market. The Company also has FDA manufacturing site approvals enabling the Company to manufacture animal drugs covered by NADAs held by other companies. Environmental Matters The Company’s operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations administered by the EPA, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the 7 Table of Contents Federal Clean Air Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act, as well as various state and municipal environmental laws and regulations. Although the Company believes it is in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations, and government approvals, and has a policy governing compliance, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be exposed to significant environmental liability or will not be required to incur significant costs of compliance. The Company also could be held liable for property damage or personal injury caused by the release, spill, transport, disposal, or other discharge of hazardous substances or materials, and could be held responsible for cleanup of any affected sites. In addition, the Company could be liable for fines, penalties, orders or injunctions, both civil and criminal. The Company has environmental compliance programs, which address environmental and other regulatory compliance issues. Future developments, such as changes to environmental laws, regulations, governmental approval requirements, or enforcement policies, could increase the Company’s environmental compliance costs. While the Company is not aware of any pending legislation or proposed regulations that, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on the Company, there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulation will not have such effect. PMR is the subject of a Consent Order dated November 22, 1999, issued by the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri (“Consent Order”), requiring investigation and remediation of historical contamination at its Bridgeton, Missouri property. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $635,000 in investigative and remediation costs has been incurred for which the Company has been or will be reimbursed pursuant to a third party indemnity obligation. The Company estimates that future remediation costs are approximately $279,000 through December 31, 2007, which is when remediation is expected to be complete. The Company expects substantially all of the remaining remediation costs will be reimbursed under the terms of the indemnity agreement, which is a formal and legally enforceable agreement, except for $22,000, which represents the Company’s estimated remaining portion of the liability and is included in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. Management believes that PMR is currently in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations and resolution of the environmental issues contained in the Consent Order will have no material effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. Employees As of December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 269 full-time employees, of which, approximately 152 were engaged in manufacturing activities, 76 in sales and marketing activities, and 41 employed in research and development or administrative functions. Fifty-eight of the full-time employees located at the Bridgeton, Missouri facility, are covered by collective bargaining agreements with international unions that were renewed in the fourth quarter of 2004 with no material changes. Each of the collective bargaining agreements expires in the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company also employs workers on a temporary basis, the number of which fluctuates during the year because demand for many of the Company’s products is seasonal. The Company considers its employee and union relations to be good. Restatement of Financial Statements and Other Developments Restatement of Financial Statements The Company filed restated audited financial statements for each of the years 2001 and 2002, unaudited interim financial data for all quarters in 2001 and 2002, and unaudited interim financial data for the quarters ended March 31, 2003 and June 30, 2003 (the “Restatement”), and its audited financial results for 2003 in its Annual Report on Form 10-K on April 29, 2005 (“2003 Form 10-K”). In addition, 8 Table of Contents the filing also included certain restated unaudited financial data for the years 1998 through 2000. The Company has not amended its Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods affected by the Restatement. The information that had been previously filed or otherwise reported for these periods is superseded by the 2003 Form 10-K and the financial statements and related financial information contained in such previously filed reports should no longer be relied upon. See 2003 Form 10-K for a further discussion and Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. Other Developments On December 13, 2005, the Company announced that VBSA had made a proposal to acquire the 39.7% outstanding Common Stock not already owned by VBSA or its subsidiaries for $4.15 per share in cash, representing an aggregate all-cash purchase price of approximately $37.0 million (the “Tender Offer Proposal”). VBSA stated in the Tender Offer Proposal that it expects that the Board of Directors of Virbac will form a special committee of independent directors to respond to VBSA’s Tender Offer Proposal on behalf of Virbac’s public shareholders and to make an informed recommendation to the public shareholders with respect to the offer. VBSA also stated that it is prepared to negotiate the terms of a definitive offer to the shareholders of Virbac on customary terms and conditions for transactions of this type. The Tender Offer Proposal stated that the definitive offer would be subject to the condition that a sufficient majority of the Common Stock is tendered such that the tendered shares, together with the shares VBSA currently owns, total at least 90% (ninety percent) of the Common Stock. VBSA has informed Virbac that it has sufficient financing available for the transaction under its existing bank credit facilities and that the offer would not be subject to a financing condition. On March 14, 2006, the Company announced the formation of a special committee of independent directors (the “Special Committee”) to review, evaluate and negotiate VBSA’s Tender Offer Proposal. The Special Committee has engaged outside financial advisors to assist in this process. The Special Committee is further authorized to negotiate the terms of VBSA’s proposal and to make a recommendation to the Company’s Board of Directors and/or its public stockholders as to whether to accept VBSA’s proposal or any other proposal made by VBSA and/or its affiliates to acquire the Common Stock held by public stockholders. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. Available Information Shareholders may obtain, free of charge, copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Commission by a request in writing to Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Virbac Corporation, 3200 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX 76137. Copies of all of these documents are also made available free of charge on the Company’s website located at www.virbaccorp.com. The documents that Virbac files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information may be obtained regarding operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The documents that Virbac files with or furnishes to the SEC are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to the Restatement and Other Matters Virbac may be materially adversely affected by the result of ongoing litigation. Virbac is a defendant in certain significant litigation, described in more detail in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” If any of these proceedings is decided against the Company, it may be subject to substantial damages, other penalties or non-monetary remedies. These penalties and other effects of litigation, including significant legal fees and expenses, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in the event that any final settlement amounts exceed the limits of the Company’s insurance policies or the carriers decline to fund such final settlements or judgments. Virbac may be required to seek additional funding which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, the Company may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash and/or cash flow from operations to payments of such judgments, fines, penalties, or settlements resulting in a reduction of cash availability and/or cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, new acquisitions and investments, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction. In addition, the negative outcome of litigation may materially adversely impair the Company’s ability to satisfy its payment obligations under outstanding indebtedness Virbac is subject to an ongoing SEC investigation. Virbac has reached a settlement agreement in principle with the staff of the SEC with regard to the SEC’s investigation of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that the settlement agreement will be approved by the SEC. Any material adverse fines, penalties or settlements arising from the pending SEC investigation that deviate from the currently proposed settlement could require additional funding that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings, SEC Investigation”. Virbac may be materially adversely affected if it does not complete the implementation of its plan to improve the Company’s internal controls. Virbac’s management and independent registered public accounting firm have identified certain material weaknesses in its disclosure and internal controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had not completed the implementation of its plan to improve internal controls and remediate the identified material weaknesses as described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management has adopted a number of measures to strengthen the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and address the material weaknesses that have been identified, however, Virbac may be unable to fully address such material weaknesses in a timely manner. The Company expects to conclude that certain of the material weaknesses identified by its management and independent registered public accounting firm as of December 31, 2005 will continue to exist as of December 31, 2006. If these material weaknesses are not remedied or otherwise mitigated, they could result in material misstatement of the Company’s financial statements in the future, which would result in additional restatements and would materially impact its ability to timely file financial statements in the future. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Virbac’s Business Factors beyond the Company’s control may cause its revenue to fluctuate, and since many of Virbac’s expenses are fixed in the short term, this fluctuation could cause greater than expected losses, cash flow and liquidity shortfalls and the Company’s stock price to decline. Management believes that the Company’s future operating results could fluctuate on a quarterly basis due to a variety of factors which are generally beyond Virbac’s control, including: • supply of products from third party suppliers or termination of such relationships; • the introduction of new products by the Company’s competitors or by the Company; • competition and pricing pressures from competitive products; • Virbac’s distribution strategy and its ability to maintain relationships with distributors; • large customers failing to purchase products at historical levels; • fundamental shifts in market demand; • economic uncertainties; • significant increases in interest rates; • manufacturing delays; • shipment problems; • regulatory and other delays in product development; • product recalls; • changes in Virbac’s reputation and/or market acceptance of its current or new products; • changes in the mix of products sold; • the results of certain strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, divestitures, and restructurings; and • significant costs related to the compliance with newly issued SEC rules and corporate governance initiatives. Virbac has high operating expenses for personnel, new product development and marketing. Many of these expenses are fixed in the short term. If any of the factors listed above cause the Company’s revenues to decline, its operating results could be substantially harmed. Virbac may be materially adversely affected by its dependency on third-party suppliers. To be successful, Virbac must contract for the supply of, or manufacture itself, current and future products of appropriate quantity, quality and cost. Such products must be available on a timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm Virbac’s business. Virbac currently relies on third party suppliers to manufacture those products that it does not manufacture. The Company often purchases products from its suppliers under agreements that are of limited duration or can be terminated on an annual basis. Management believes that the Company has agreements in place to ensure supply of its major product offerings through at least the next 12 months and believes that the Company is in full compliance with such agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that Virbac’s suppliers will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that Virbac will be able to compel them to do so. The Company’s future revenues depend on the research, development, commercialization and market acceptance of new products, any of which can be slower than expected. Virbac’s business depends on its ability to develop a broad range of new products addressing companion animal healthcare. The acceptance of Virbac’s products by veterinarians is critical to its 11 Table of Contents success. The Company believes that its revenue growth and profitability substantially depends upon its ability to improve market acceptance of current products, complete development of new and innovative products, and successfully introduce and commercialize such products. The research, development and regulatory approval process for many of Virbac’s products are extensive and may take substantially longer than anticipated. New products the Company is developing for the veterinary marketplace may not perform up to expectations. Because Virbac has limited resources to devote to product development and commercialization, any delay in the research or development of one product or reallocation of resources to product development efforts that prove unsuccessful may delay or jeopardize the development of the Company’s other product candidates. If Virbac fails to successfully develop new products and bring them to market in a timely manner, its ability to generate additional revenue will decrease. Virbac may not be able to successfully compete or be profitable in the business in which it operates. Virbac competes with independent animal health companies and major pharmaceutical companies that have animal health divisions. Virbac also competes with independent, third party distributors, including distributors who sell products under their own private labels. Virbac’s competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, better-established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than it does. Virbac’s competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than the Company. The Company’s competitors may develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than its current or future products or that would render its technologies and products obsolete. Further, additional competition could come from new entrants to the animal healthcare market. Moreover, Virbac may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. Virbac may be materially adversely affected by costly intellectual property disputes. The Company’s ability to compete effectively will depend in part on its ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of its technology and either to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others or to obtain rights to technology owned by third parties. Virbac has United States and foreign-issued patents. Patents that Virbac has received may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future or the rights created by those patents may not provide a competitive advantage. Virbac also relies on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing invention to develop and maintain its competitive position. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company’s trade secrets. Virbac may become subject to patent infringement claims and litigation in the United States or other countries or interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”), to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly, time-consuming and distracting. The Company may also need to pursue litigation to enforce any patents issued to its collaborative partners, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by it or its collaborative partners, or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or interference proceeding will result in substantial expense to the Company and significant diversion of the efforts of its technical and management personnel. Any adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties. Further, as a result of litigation or other proceedings, Virbac may be required to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 12 Table of Contents Virbac may be materially adversely affected by the cost of obtaining and maintaining costly regulatory approvals that are required to market its products. Many of the products Virbac develops and markets are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the EPA and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulations govern, among other things, the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, advertising, promotion, sale, transport, disposal and distribution of the Company’s products. Satisfaction of these requirements can take several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay or to prevent marketing of the Company’s products for a considerable period of time and to impose costly procedures upon its activities. Regulatory approval of the Company’s products may also impose limitations on the indicated or intended uses for which its products may be marketed. Among the conditions for certain regulatory approvals is the requirement that the Company’s facilities and/or the facilities of its third party manufacturers conform to current good manufacturing practices. The Company’s manufacturing facilities and those of its third party manufacturers must also conform to certain other manufacturing regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as maintenance of records and proper documentation. If any regulatory authority determines that Virbac’s manufacturing facilities or those of its third party manufacturers do not conform to appropriate manufacturing requirements, the Company or the manufacturers of its products may be subject to sanctions, including manufacturing suspensions, product recalls or seizures, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. The Company may be materially adversely affected if the FDA and the EPA decide to require FDA or EPA registered products to be produced in plants that produce only FDA or EPA registered products. Virbac manufactures both FDA and EPA registered products in its Bridgeton, Missouri facility. The Bridgeton facility has been developed over a number of years to comply with guidelines and procedures set out by both the FDA and the EPA. In the past, the facility has not encountered any regulatory issues resulting from manufacturing both types of products simultaneously. However, the industry standard is to produce FDA or EPA registered products in separate facilities. In the future, either the FDA or the EPA could decide that it will no longer allow products under its supervision to be produced in a plant that also produces products registered with another agency. If this were to occur, the Company would have to separate its facility or find another facility so that the FDA or EPA registered products could be produced separately. There can be no assurance that the Company could find an alternative facility or that it would have the funds needed in order to make such facility compliant with either EPA or FDA requirements. Virbac may be materially adversely affected by product returns and product liability. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s current products as well as those currently under development entail an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Following the introduction of a product, adverse side effects may be discovered. Adverse publicity regarding such effects could affect sales of the Company’s other products for an indeterminate time period. To date, the Company’s has not experienced any material product liability claims, but any claim arising in the future could substantially harm its business. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of its policies. 13 Table of Contents Virbac may incur significant costs relating to the removal of hazardous materials and waste associated with its products and development programs. The Company’s products and development programs involve the controlled use, management, manufacture, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous and bio hazardous materials, including chemicals. Although Virbac believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable local, state and federal regulations, the Company cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, Virbac could be held liable for any fines, penalties, remediation costs or other damages that result, including damages for personal injury or property damage. The Company’s liability for the release of hazardous materials could exceed its resources, which could lead to a shutdown of its operations. In addition, Virbac may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations if it chooses to expand its manufacturing capacity or if regulations were to require it to make significant operational changes. Virbac may be materially adversely affected by changes in veterinary medical practices. The market for Virbac’s veterinary products could be negatively impacted by the introduction or broad market acceptance of newly developed or alternative preventatives or other products for the diseases and conditions for which it sells products. Such a negative impact in the market for its product could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. Virbac may be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or economic uncertainty. The pet and companion animal product industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions, particularly those that influence consumer confidence, spending and buying habits. Economic downturns or uncertainty may not only adversely affect overall demand and intensify price competition, but also cause consumers to “trade down” by purchasing lower priced, and often lower margin, items. These consumer responses, coupled with the impact of general economic factors such as prevailing interest rates, price inflation or deflation, employment trends in Virbac’s markets, and labor and energy costs, can also have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Risks Related to Virbac’s Relationship with VBSA Virbac may be materially adversely affected by a decrease in financial support that it receives from VBSA. Virbac receives significant support from its indirect majority shareholder, VBSA, including product development, research expenditures that benefit the Company, borrowings, and worldwide distribution of the Company’s products. If VBSA were to reduce the amount of support that it provides to the Company, the Company’s results of operations could potentially be adversely affected. A reduction in research and product development assistance provided by VBSA could decrease the number of future products the Company expects to introduce and increase the time it takes to introduce certain products into the market, thus decreasing the Company’s expected future revenue. Finally, if VBSA discontinues its lending to the Company, the Company would be forced to find alternative financing that might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Ownership of Common Stock and the Securities Markets VBSA controls any vote of shareholders of the Company. VBSA owns, indirectly, approximately 60% of the outstanding Common Stock. As a result, VBSA has the power to elect all of the Company’s directors, appoint new management and approve or reject any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including adopting amendments to the Company’s charter and approving mergers and sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. Minority holders of the Common Stock will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote so long as VBSA owns at least a majority of the outstanding Common Stock. In addition, VBSA’s ownership of the Common Stock will make an unsolicited acquisition of the Company more difficult and discourage certain types of transactions involving a change of control of the Company, including transactions in which the holders of the Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. VBSA may make decisions that differ from the interests of other holders of the Common Stock. Based on VBSA’s beneficial ownership of a majority of the outstanding Common Stock, the Company is a “controlled company,” as defined in Rule 4350(c)(5) of the listing standards of the NASDAQ National Market, on which shares of the Common Stock were quoted prior to being delisted. Accordingly, the Company is exempt from certain requirements of NASDAQ’s corporate governance listing standards, including the requirement to maintain a majority of independent directors on its Board of Directors and the requirements regarding the determination of compensation of executive officers and the nomination of directors by independent directors. As such, the procedures for approving significant corporate decisions for the Company are not subject to the same corporate governance requirements as non-controlled companies with stock quoted on the NASDAQ National Market. VBSA Tender Offer Proposal On December 13, 2005, the Company announced that VBSA had made a proposal to acquire the 39.7% outstanding Common Stock not already owned by VBSA or its subsidiaries for $4.15 per share in cash, representing an aggregate all-cash purchase price of approximately $37.0 million. VBSA stated in the Tender Offer Proposal that it expects that the Board of Directors of Virbac will form a special committee of independent directors to respond to VBSA’s Tender Offer Proposal on behalf of Virbac’s public shareholders and to make an informed recommendation to the public shareholders with respect to the offer. On March 14, 2006, the Company announced the formation of the Special Committee to review, evaluate and negotiate VBSA’s Tender Offer Proposal. The Special Committee has engaged outside financial advisors to assist in this process. The Special Committee is further authorized to negotiate the terms of VBSA’s proposal and to make a recommendation to the Company’s Board of Directors and/or its public stockholders as to whether to accept VBSA’s proposal or any other proposal made by VBSA and/or its affiliates to acquire the Common Stock held by public stockholders. There is no assurance that the Tender Offer Proposal will result in a definitive offer and there is no assurance that should a definitive proposal be made by VBSA, that it will be affected. Should VBSA initiate a definitive offer, there is no assurance that it will be at the price stipulated in the Company’s December 13, 2005 announcement. The Company will be required to incur additional costs in connection with its evaluation of the Tender Offer Proposal. These costs will include additional legal, financial advisory and Special Committee fees. Additionally, management’s time will be diverted from regular business activities to assisting with activities associated with the Tender Offer Proposal. The Company has been subjected to 15 Table of Contents litigation as a result of the Tender Offer Proposal as more fully described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” and may be subject to further litigation. Virbac may continue to be materially adversely affected by the lack of a public trading market for its Common Stock. The Common Stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market as of the opening of business on January 23, 2004, because the Company was not able to file its periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. The Common Stock has continued to be quoted on the Pink Sheets on an unsolicited trading basis. As a result, there is currently no regular public trading market for the Common Stock. The Company does not know if a market for the Common Stock will be re-established or that, if re-established, a market will be sustained. Investors should realize that they may be unable to sell the Common Stock if they purchase it. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in the Common Stock. Virbac filed a re-listing application with NASDAQ and continues to work with NASDAQ listing officials on the potential re-listing of the Common Stock with NASDAQ. If the Company is not able to re-list the Common Stock on one of NASDAQ’s stock exchanges or an alternate stock exchange, the lack of a regular public trading market for the Common Stock could have an ongoing material adverse effect on the liquidity and price of the Common Stock. The public float of Virbac’s Common Stock is limited since over 60% of the Common Stock outstanding is held by VBSA. Even if the Company’s Common Stock were relisted on one of NASDAQ’s stock exchanges or on an alternate stock exchange, it would have a relatively small public float since over 60% of its Common Stock outstanding is held by VBSA. Accordingly, the Company cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interest in the Common Stock will provide an active and liquid trading market. Due to Virbac’s limited public float, Virbac may be vulnerable to investors taking a “short position” in the Common Stock, which would likely have a depressing effect on the price of the Common Stock and add increased volatility to the Company’s trading market. The volatility of the market for the Common Stock could have a material adverse effect on Virbac’s business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 