ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to general and industry specific economic factors that are largely out of our control and could affect our operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on various economic factors over which we have little control, that include: • the availability of qualified drivers; • access to the credit and capital markets; • changes in regulations concerning shipment and storage of material we transport and depot; • increases in fuel prices, taxes and tolls; • increases in costs of equipment; • interest rate, natural gas, oil and currency fluctuations; • excess capacity in the chemical logistics, energy logistics or intermodal industry; • changes in license and regulatory fees; • potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry; • downturns in customers’ business cycles; and • reductions in customers’ shipping requirements. As a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices, lower profit margins and less availability of cash in the future. We have a large number of customers in the chemical-processing and consumer-goods industries. If these customers experience fluctuations in their business activity due to an economic downturn, work stoppages or other industry conditions, the volume of freight transported by us or intermodal provided by us on behalf of those customers may decrease. The volume of shipments of chemical products is, in turn, affected by many other industries and end use markets, including consumer and industrial products, paints and coatings, paper and packaging, agriculture and food products, and tends to vary with changing economic conditions. The trucking industry, in general, experienced a slowdown due to lower demand resulting from slowing economic conditions in 2008 and 2009. These conditions continued, although to a lesser extent, in 2010 and 2011 and it is uncertain whether economic conditions will improve in 2012 and beyond. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our New ABL Facility and the indentures governing our 9.875% Second-Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) contain covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • redeem, repurchase, make payments on or retire subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create or incur liens; • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our independent affiliates. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These covenants may prohibit or impair us from taking actions that we believe are best for our business and shareholders. Furthermore, under the New ABL Facility we may be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those ratios. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements limit our use of proceeds from our ordinary operations and from extraordinary transactions. These limits may require us to apply proceeds in a certain manner or prohibit us from utilizing the proceeds in our operations or from prepaying or retiring indebtedness that we desire. A failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in the New ABL Facility or our other indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default, the lenders of the defaulted indebtedness: • would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us under the New ABL Facility; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due immediately and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay amounts under the New ABL Facility, the lenders under the New ABL Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We have substantial indebtedness and may not be able to make required payments on our indebtedness. We had consolidated indebtedness and capital lease obligations, including current maturities, of $307.1 million as of December 31, 2011. We must make regular payments under the New ABL Facility and our capital leases and semi-annual interest payments under our 2018 Notes. Our 2018 Notes issued in the quarter ended December 31, 2010 carry high fixed rates of interest. In addition, interest on amounts borrowed under our New ABL Facility is variable and will increase as market rates of interest increase. We do not presently hedge against the risk of rising interest rates. Our higher interest expense may reduce our future profitability. Our future higher interest expense and future redemption obligations could have other important consequences with respect to our ability to manage our business successfully, including the following: • it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations for our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with these obligations could result in an event of default; • it will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; • it increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • it limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • it may make us more vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the economy; and • it limits our ability to exploit business opportunities. The New ABL Facility matures August 2016. However, the maturity date of the New ABL Facility may be accelerated if we default on our obligations. If the maturity of the New ABL Facility and/or such other debt is accelerated, we do not believe that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the New ABL Facility and/or such other debt or, unless conditions in the credit markets improve significantly, that we will be able to refinance the New ABL Facility and/or such other debt on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to repay or refinance the New ABL Facility and/or such other debt at maturity will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, would cause substantial liquidity problems and may result in the bankruptcy of us and/or our subsidiaries. Any actual or potential bankruptcy or liquidity crisis may materially harm our relationships with our customers, suppliers and independent affiliates. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to satisfy our interest and principal payment obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by many factors beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under the New ABL Facility, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the New ABL Facility. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not be able to draw under the New ABL Facility, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness or fund our operations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If we are not able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or for sufficient proceeds, we could default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may incur significantly more indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The New ABL Facility and the indentures governing the 2018 Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we or our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. We had $82.3 million available for additional borrowing under the New ABL Facility as of December 31, 2011, including a subfacility for letters of credit, and the covenants under our debt agreements would allow us to borrow a significant amount of indebtedness beyond this amount. Additional leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could increase the risks described in “Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business,” and “We have substantial indebtedness and may not be able to make required payments on our indebtedness.” The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. No single carrier in the chemical logistics or energy logistics business has a significant market share. We compete with many other carriers of varying sizes, customers’ private fleets, and, to a lesser extent in the chemical logistics market, with railroads, which may limit our growth opportunities and reduce profitability. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on the trucking industry’s pricing structure. Some trucking companies with which we compete have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that the most significant competitive factor that impacts demand for our services is rates, and we may be forced to lower our rates based on our competitors’ pricing decisions, which would reduce our profitability. In fact, certain markets that we serve have experienced fierce price competition in recent years. This has been further magnified through the impact of the recent global economic recession as trucking companies have focused more on price to retain business and market share. With respect to certain aspects of our business, we also compete with intermodal transportation and railroads. Intermodal transportation has increased in recent years. Growth in such forms of transport could adversely affect our market share, net sales and profit margins. Competition from non-trucking modes of transportation and from intermodal transportation would likely increase if state or federal fuel taxes were to increase without a corresponding increase in taxes imposed upon other modes of transportation. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additional trends include current and anticipated consolidation among our competitors which may cause us to lose market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have less debt than we do. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and in the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully, our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. Our reliance upon independent affiliates and independent owner-operators could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We rely heavily upon independent affiliates and independent owner-operators to perform the logistics services for which we contract with our customers. A reduction in the number of independent owner-operators, whether due to capital requirements related to the expense of obtaining, operating and maintaining equipment or for other reasons, could have a negative effect on our operations and profitability. Similarly the loss of one or more independent affiliates could adversely affect our profitability. Contracts with independent affiliates are for various terms and contracts with independent owner-operators may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although independent affiliates and independent owner-operators are responsible for paying for their own equipment and other operating costs, significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek a higher percentage of the revenue generated if we are unable to increase our rates commensurately. A continued decline in the rates we pay to our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators could adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing independent affiliates and independent owner-operators and attract new independent affiliates, independent owner-operators and drivers. Disagreements with independent affiliates or independent owner-operators as to payment or other terms, or the failure of a key independent affiliate to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise perform consistent with our requirements may require us to utilize alternative suppliers, in each case at potentially higher prices or with disruption of the services that we provide to our customers. If we fail to deliver on time or if the costs of our services increase, then our profitability and customer relationships could be harmed. Although our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators have substantial contractual obligations to us, we do not control them. These independent affiliates and independent owner-operators typically utilize tractors and trailers bearing our tradenames and trademarks. To the extent that one of our independent affiliates or independent owner-operators are subject to negative publicity, it could reflect on us and have a material adverse effect on our business, brand, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The loss of one or more significant customers may adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon a limited number of large customers. Our top ten customers accounted for 32.6% of our total revenue during 2011. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or a material reduction in services we perform for such customers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are self-insured and have exposure to certain claims and are subject to the insurance marketplace, all of which could affect our profitability. The primary accident risks associated with our business are: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage; • workers’ compensation claims; • environmental pollution liability claims; • cargo loss and damage; and • general liability claims. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We currently maintain insurance for: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage claims, covering all employees, independent owner operators and independent affiliates; • workers’ compensation insurance coverage on our employees and company drivers; • environmental pollution liability claims; and • general liability claims. Our insurance program includes a self insured deductible of $2.0 million per incident for bodily injury and property damage and a $1.0 million deductible for workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently maintain insurance policies with a total limit of $40.0 million, of which $35.0 million is provided under an umbrella liability policy and $5.0 million is provided under a truckers’ liability policy. The $2.0 million deductible per incident could adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of an increase in the number or severity of incidents. Additionally, we are self-insured for damage to the equipment that we own and lease, as well as for cargo losses and such self-insurance is not subject to any maximum limitation. We extend insurance coverage to our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators for (i) motor vehicle related bodily injury, (ii) motor-vehicle related property damage, and (iii) cargo loss and damage. Under this extended coverage, independent affiliates and independent owner-operators are responsible for only a small portion of the applicable deductibles. We are subject to changing conditions and pricing in the insurance marketplace and we cannot assure you that the cost or availability of various types of insurance may not change dramatically in the future. To the extent these costs cannot be passed on to our customers in increased freight rates, increases in insurance costs could reduce our future profitability and cash flow. Changes in laws and regulations regarding health insurance benefits could adversely affect our cost of operations, employee relations and profitability. The recently enacted federal healthcare reform legislation could significantly increase our employee costs by requiring us either to provide health insurance coverage to our employees or to pay certain penalties for electing not to provide such coverage. Because these new requirements are broad, complex, subject to certain phase-in rules and pending legal challenges, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact that this legislation will have on our business and operating costs. We cannot assure you that this legislation or any alternative version that may ultimately be implemented will not materially increase our operating costs. This legislation could also adversely affect our employee relations and ability to compete for new employees if our response to this legislation is considered less favorable than the responses or health benefits offered by employers with whom we compete for talent. The trucking industry is subject to regulation, and changes in trucking regulations may increase costs. As a motor carrier, we are subject to regulation by the FMCSA and the DOT, and by various federal, state, and provincial agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers governing various aspects such as operating authority, safety, hours of service, hazardous materials transportation, financial reporting and acquisitions. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment, product-handling requirements and drug testing of drivers. In 2010, we underwent a compliance review by the FMCSA in which we retained our satisfactory DOT safety rating. Any downgrade in our DOT safety rating (as a result of the new CSA regulations described below or otherwise) could adversely affect our business. In December 2010, the FMCSA began to rate individual driver safety performance inclusive of all driver violations over 3-year time periods under new regulations known as the CSA. CSA is an FMCSA initiative designed to provide motor carriers and drivers with attention from FMCSA and state partners about their 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements potential safety problems with an ultimate goal of achieving a greater reduction in large truck and bus crashes, injuries, and fatalities. Prior to these regulations, only carriers were rated by the DOT and the rating only included out-of-service violations and ticketed offenses associated with out-of-service violations. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices, emissions or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing trucking services. Possible changes include: • increasingly stringent environmental regulations, including changes intended to address climate change; • restrictions, taxes or other controls on emissions; • regulation specific to the fracing industry and logistics providers to the industry; • changes in the hours-of-service regulations, which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period; • requirements leading to accelerated purchases of new trailers; • mandatory limits on vehicle weight and size; and • mandatory regulations imposed by the Department of Homeland Security. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels and emissions, which may increase our or our independent affiliates’ operating costs, require capital expenditures or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. Restrictions on emissions or other climate change laws or regulations could also affect our customers that use significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels in producing or delivering the products we carry. We also could lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could create environmental liabilities. Our activities, particularly those relating to our handling, transporting and storage of bulk chemicals, are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation by governmental authorities in the United States as well as foreign governmental authorities. Among other things, these environmental laws and regulations address emissions to the air, discharges onto land and into water, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws generally require us to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits. Most environmental laws provide for substantial fines, penalties and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Additionally, we have been, and may in the future be required to obtain financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, for environmental obligations. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws, regulations, permits or licenses will not be identified or occur in the future, or that such laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could impose material costs on us. As a handler of hazardous substances, we are potentially subject to strict, joint and several liability for investigating and rectifying the consequences of spills and other environmental releases of these substances. We have incurred remedial costs and regulatory penalties for chemical or wastewater spills and releases at our facilities or over the road. As a result of environmental studies conducted at our facilities or at third party sites, we have identified environmental contamination at certain sites that will require remediation and we are currently conducting investigation and remediation projects at eight of our facilities. Future liabilities and costs under environmental, health, and safety laws are not easily predicted, and such liabilities could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business reputation. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, we have been named a potentially responsible party at various sites under the CERCLA and other environmental regulatory programs. Our current reserves provided for these sites may prove insufficient, which would result in future charges against earnings. Furthermore, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites could be material. Potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption of the delivery of intermodal ISO tank containers to those ports where we do business would reduce the number of intermodal tank containers that we transport, store, clean or maintain. This reduced activity may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. Political events in the Middle East, Venezuela, and elsewhere, as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events, and current and future legislation (such as market-based (cap-and-trade) greenhouse gas emissions control mechanisms), also may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have recovered the majority of the increases in fuel prices from chemical logistics and intermodal customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected may not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent fuel surcharges are insufficient to offset our fuel costs or we are unable to continue passing on increased fuel costs to our customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The loss of qualified drivers or other personnel could limit our growth and negatively affect operations. During periods of high trucking volumes, there is substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry. Regulatory requirements, including CSA (discussed above), and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers. Furthermore, certain geographic areas have a greater shortage of qualified drivers than other areas. We operate in many of the geographic areas where there have been driver shortages in the past and have turned down new business opportunities as a result of the lack of qualified new drivers. Our voluntary implementation of EOBRs prior to regulatory requirement has resulted in greater driver turnover in 2011 and could become an on-going competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not compelled to implement EOBRs as we anticipate. Difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, particularly qualified drivers, could require us to increase driver compensation, forego available customer opportunities and underutilize the tractors and trailers in our network. These actions could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. In addition, we may not be able to recruit other qualified personnel in the future. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future wars or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks and fingerprinting of drivers in connection with new hazardous materials endorsements on their licenses. Such existing measures and future measures may have significant costs associated with them which a motor carrier is forced to bear. Moreover, large trucks carrying toxic chemicals are potential terrorist targets, and we may be obligated to take measures, including possible capital expenditures intended to protect our trucks. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could continue to increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on members of our senior management. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of our senior management team. If members of senior management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. Our long-lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment. At December 31, 2011, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $49.8 million, or approximately 16.5% of our total assets and approximately 25.9% of our non-current assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. In addition, at December 31, 2011, net property and equipment totaled approximately $125.9 million, or approximately 41.6% of our total assets. We review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year with a measurement date of June 30, and more often if a triggering event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment reviews performed as of June 30, 2011 and 2010 resulted in no impairment. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2009 indicated there was goodwill impairment. As a result of the analysis, we concluded that a total impairment charge to goodwill of $146.2 million was necessary at June 30, 2009, of which $144.3 million was related to our chemical logistics segment, eliminating 100% of the carrying amount of goodwill of that segment, and $1.9 million was related to our intermodal segment. If there are changes to the methods used to allocate carrying values, if management’s estimates of future operating results change, if there are changes in the identified reporting units or if there are changes to other significant assumptions, the estimated carrying values and the estimated fair value of our goodwill could change significantly, and could result in future impairment charges, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to successfully realize all of the intended benefits from future acquisitions, and we may be unable to identify or realize the intended benefits of potential future acquisition candidates. We may be unable to realize all of the intended benefits of any future acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we continually evaluate potential future acquisitions, some of which could be material, and engage in discussions with acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we assure you that our acquisition strategies will be viewed positively by customers or achieve their intended benefits. Often acquisitions are undertaken to improve the operating results of either or both the acquirer and the acquired company and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We will encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management’s attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Increased unionization could increase our operating costs or constrain operating flexibility. Although only approximately 2.7% of our driver population, including independent owner-operators and employees of independent affiliates, was subject to collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 2011, unions such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have traditionally been active in the U.S. trucking industry. Unionized workers could disrupt our operations by strike, work stoppage or other slowdown. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization. Increased unionization of our workforce could result in higher compensation and working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. If we withdraw from any of our multi-employer pension plans, we will be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. As of December 31, 2011, we contributed to three multi-employer pension plans for employees under collective bargaining agreements. In conjunction with our prior restructuring efforts, during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we notified the trustees of three other plans of our intention to withdraw from the plans. Our withdrawal notifications were originally estimated to result in an aggregate withdrawal liability of approximately $2.0 million, and we recorded a restructuring charge for this full amount in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. During the first nine months of fiscal 2011, we made aggregate payments of approximately $1.5 million to fully discharge the liabilities under these three pension plans and recorded a restructuring credit of $0.5 million. We do not currently intend to withdraw from the remaining three multi-employer pension plans or take any actions that would subject us to payment of contingent obligations upon withdrawal. Based on information provided to us from the trustees of these remaining plans, we estimate our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination from these remaining plans to be approximately $62.2 million, of which the largest component relates to the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan, which is estimated to be $57.9 million. New markets such as the energy logistics market have risks with which we have limited experience, and we may not be able to operate profitably in these markets and may lose our investment. In 2011, we began hauling fresh water, disposal water and oil for the natural gas and oil drilling market. Although we have identified our existing contracts in this market as a source of revenue growth, we may prove unable to perform these contracts and earn anticipated revenue. We have limited experience transporting fresh water and disposal water and oil or serving natural gas or oil drilling customers. We plan to leverage our existing network of affiliates to expand or energy market business, but our existing network may prove unsuitable for this new business. Also, our market expansion requires certain capital expenditures for specialized trailers and other start-up costs that we may be unable to recoup. Hydraulic fracturing is under significant legislative and regulatory scrutiny, the adoption of new laws or regulations at the federal, state or local level could adversely affect our customers’ hydraulic fracturing operations, which could reduce demand for our logistics services. In addition, heightened political, regulatory and public scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, whether directly or indirectly. As we expand our business into this new market, we may face increased risks due to the cyclical nature of the energy industry. Depending on the market prices of oil and gas, customers in that industry may delay and decrease their capital and development expenditures, reducing the demand for our transportation services. Such market volatility may lead to fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter. Natural gas prices in recent years have been at historic lows, leading some large producers to announce reduced fracing drilling. If this continues, it could reduce our revenues. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete in this new market or that our operations in this market will be successful. If we are unsuccessful, our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a single shareholder who can substantially influence the outcome of all matters voted upon by our shareholders and prevent actions which a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. As of March 1, 2012, Apollo Investment Fund III, L.P. and its affiliated funds (“Apollo”) were our largest shareholder and owned or controlled approximately 32.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions, the ability to block an unsolicited tender offer and any other matters requiring a vote of shareholders. Three of our board members are partners or employees of Apollo. This concentration of ownership and board representation could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination that a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and Florida law may prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Florida law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to control a takeover attempt which the Board viewed unfavorably; • elimination of the voting rights of shareholders with respect to shares that are acquired without prior Board approval that would otherwise entitle such shareholder to exercise certain amounts of voting power in the election of directors; and • prohibition on business combinations with interested shareholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and result in dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2012, there are approximately 24.4 million shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 8.8 million shares of common stock, as of March 1, 2012, are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or are held by affiliates. In addition, as of March 1, 2012, we have 2.0 million shares of common stock available for issuance under our stock option plan and restricted stock incentive plan. As of March 1, 2012, there were outstanding options for approximately 2.3 million shares and outstanding warrants of less than 0.1 million shares of our common stock. Exercise of the warrants and of options that are in-the-money will result in dilution to existing shareholders in an amount equal to the difference in the market and exercise prices multiplied by the number of shares exercised. In addition, prior to their exercise, these options and warrants may depress the market price for our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the New ABL Facility and indentures governing our 2018 Notes contain certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on one’s investment. This may not occur. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 