ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is subject to general and industry specific economic factors that are largely out of our control and could affect our operations and profitability. Our business is dependent on various economic factors over which we have little control, that include: • the availability of qualified drivers; • access to the credit and capital markets; • changes in regulations concerning shipment and storage of material we transport and depot; • increases in fuel prices, taxes and tolls; • increases in costs of equipment; • interest rate, natural gas, oil and currency fluctuations; • excess capacity in the chemical logistics, energy logistics or intermodal industry; • changes in laws or regulations or changes in license and regulatory fees; • potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry; • downturns in customers’ business cycles; and • reductions in customers’ shipping requirements. As a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices, lower profit margins and less availability of cash in the future. We have a large number of customers in the chemical-processing, oil, gas, and consumer-goods industries. If these customers experience fluctuations in their business activity due to an economic downturn, work stoppages, commodity price changes or other industry conditions, transportation and other services provided by us on behalf of those customers may decrease. The volume of shipments of chemical products is affected by many other industries and end use markets. Natural gas and oil drilling is affected by the market prices for those commodities. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our ABL Facility and the indentures governing our 9.875% Second-Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) contain covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • redeem, repurchase, make payments on or retire subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create or incur liens; • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our independent affiliates. 15 Table of Contents These covenants may prohibit or impair us from taking actions that we believe are best for our business and shareholders. Furthermore, under the ABL Facility, we may be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those ratios. In addition, covenants in our debt agreements limit our use of proceeds from our ordinary operations and from extraordinary transactions. These limits may require us to apply proceeds in a certain manner or prohibit us from utilizing the proceeds in the manner we believe most beneficial. A failure to comply with any of the covenants contained in the ABL Facility or our other indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default, the lenders of the defaulted indebtedness: • would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us under the ABL Facility; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due immediately and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay amounts under the ABL Facility, the lenders under the ABL Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We have substantial indebtedness and may not be able to make required payments on our indebtedness. We had consolidated indebtedness and capital lease obligations, including current maturities, of $418.8 million as of December 31, 2012. We must make regular payments under the ABL Facility and our capital leases and semi-annual interest payments under our 2018 Notes. Our 2018 Notes issued in the quarter ended December 31, 2010 carry high fixed rates of interest. In addition, interest on amounts borrowed under our ABL Facility is variable and will increase as market rates of interest increase. We do not presently hedge against the risk of rising interest rates. Our higher interest expense may reduce our future profitability. Our future higher interest expense and future redemption obligations could have other important consequences with respect to our ability to manage our business successfully, including the following: • it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations for our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with these obligations could result in an event of default; • it will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; • it increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • it limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • it may make us more vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the economy; and • it limits our ability to exploit business opportunities. The ABL Facility matures August 2016. However, the maturity date of the ABL Facility may be accelerated if we default on our obligations. If the maturity of the ABL Facility and/or such other debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay the ABL Facility and/or such other debt or be able to refinance the ABL Facility and/or such other debt on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to repay or refinance the ABL Facility and/or such other debt at maturity would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, would cause substantial liquidity problems and may result in the bankruptcy of us and/or our subsidiaries. Any actual or potential bankruptcy or liquidity crisis may materially harm our relationships with our customers, suppliers and independent affiliates. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to satisfy our interest and principal payment obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by many factors beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under the ABL Facility, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the ABL Facility. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we may not be able to draw under the ABL Facility, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness or fund our operations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If we are not able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or for sufficient proceeds, we could default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may incur significantly more indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The ABL Facility and the indentures governing the 2018 Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we or our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. We had $55.2 million available for additional borrowing under the ABL Facility as of December 31, 2012, including a subfacility for letters of credit, and the covenants under our debt agreements would allow us to borrow a significant amount of indebtedness beyond this amount. Additional leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could increase the risks described in “Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business,” and “We have substantial indebtedness and may not be able to make required payments on our indebtedness.” Stock repurchases under our share repurchase program will diminish our cash resources, may not enhance shareholder value and could adversely affect trading in our common stock. Our Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program for up to $15.0 million in shares of our common stock. Any repurchases under the program would diminish our cash resources and increase our leverage, which could impact our ability to reduce our indebtedness or pursue other business opportunities that may be more valuable to our shareholders. There is no assurance that we would be able to replenish our cash resources in the future. Share repurchases may not enhance shareholder value as the price of our common stock may decline below our repurchase prices, or the repurchase prices may exceed the intrinsic value of our assets or business. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date, does not obligate us to acquire a particular number of shares, and may be discontinued at any time. Any discontinuation of or limited repurchases under our program could negatively impact our stock price. Any repurchases would reduce the number of shares available for the public to trade, which could diminish trading volumes, increase the price volatility of our common stock and reduce our equity. The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. No single carrier in the chemical logistics or energy logistics business has a significant market share. We compete with many other carriers of varying sizes, customers’ private fleets, railroads and, in the energy logistics market, with pipelines which may limit our growth opportunities and reduce profitability. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on the trucking industry’s pricing structure. Some trucking companies with which we compete have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that the most significant competitive factor that impacts demand for our services is rates, and we may be forced to lower our rates based on our competitors’ pricing decisions, which would reduce our profitability. In fact, certain markets that we serve have experienced fierce price competition in recent years. With respect to certain aspects of our business, we also compete with intermodal transportation, pipelines and railroads. Intermodal transportation has increased in recent years. Growth in such forms of transport could adversely affect our market share, net sales and profit margins. Competition from non-trucking modes of transportation and from intermodal transportation would likely increase if state or federal fuel taxes were to increase without a corresponding increase in taxes imposed upon other modes of transportation. 17 Table of Contents Additional trends include current and anticipated consolidation among our competitors which may cause us to lose market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources and have less debt than we do. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and in the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully, our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. Our reliance upon independent affiliates and independent owner-operators could adversely affect customer relationships, our operations and our financial performance. We rely heavily upon independent affiliates and independent owner-operators to perform the services for which we contract with our customers. We believe that our independent affiliate and independent owner-operator relationships can facilitate our financial and operational goals. However, there can be no assurance that the structure will accomplish the goals for which it was created, and our reliance upon independent affiliates and independent owner-operators creates numerous risks for our business. In addition, while certain of these risks are shared characteristics of both independent affiliates and independent owner-operators, the degree of these risks may differ between the two and certain risks may be characteristic of only one. We contract with our customers to perform the services provided by our businesses. If our independent affiliates or independent owner-operators fail to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise fail to perform in a manner consistent with our requirements, we may be required to utilize alternative service providers at potentially higher prices or with some degree of disruption of the services that we provide to our customers. If we fail to deliver on time, if our contractual obligations are not otherwise met, or if the costs of our services increase, then our profitability and customer relationships could be harmed. The financial condition and operating costs of our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators are affected by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control. Adverse changes in the financial condition of our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators or increases in their equipment or operating costs could cause them to seek higher revenues or to cease their business relationships with us. The prices we charge our customers could be impacted by such issues, which may in turn limit our pricing flexibility with customers, resulting in fewer customer contracts and decreasing our revenues. Although our independent affiliates have substantial contractual obligations to us, we do not control them. Independent affiliates may take actions that maximize their short-term profits or other interests even if they are detrimental to us. Due to their importance in our operations, we have loaned money to and entered into other financing arrangements with certain independent affiliates and may do so again. The inability of our independent affiliates to satisfy their obligations to us could result in accounting charges and losses that materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have in certain instances acquired the operations of underperforming independent affiliates and could again in the future. While these acquisitions seek to preserve our customer relationships and the scope of our operations, there is no assurance that they will succeed in doing so. Further, any such acquisition could require the use of liquidity sources, capital investment and management attention and could materially limit our ability to meet our financial and operations objectives. Independent affiliates and independent owner-operators typically utilize tractors, trailers and other equipment bearing our tradenames and trademarks. If one of our independent affiliates or independent owner-operators is subject to negative publicity, it could reflect on us and have a material adverse effect on our business, brand and financial performance. Under certain laws, we could also be subject to allegations of liability for the activities of our independent affiliates or independent owner-operators. Competition for qualified independent owner-operators is substantial, and currently and otherwise from time to time there are shortages of available qualified independent owner-operators. Shortages can result from causes beyond our control or from contractual terms or company policies that make contracting with us less desirable to certain owner-operators. Due to the absence of long-term contracts, independent owner-operators can quickly terminate their relationships with us. We may have insufficient driver capacity to meet the needs of our customers and be forced to forego business that would otherwise be available to us. Driver shortages may decrease our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our energy logistics business may suffer if production shifts away from or slows in the shale regions in which we have operations. Our energy logistics business currently serves customers in the oil, gas and frac shale energy market in the Bakken, Eagle Ford, Marcellus, Mississippian Limestone, Permian, Utica and Woodford shale regions. A shale region may yield only oil or gas or both commodities, depending upon the region. In the past, frac shale drilling activity has shifted among shales as the relative prices of oil and gas make drilling for one commodity more profitable than another. Oil or gas drilling may shift away from the shale regions in which we have operations because of these commodity price swings or for other reasons over which we have no control, such as resource discovery, new pipeline access, local drilling costs or state regulation. While certain business assets may be redistributed among shales, assets such as terminals, disposal wells and certain customer contracts are specific to discrete shale regions. Even 18 Table of Contents business assets that may be redistributed or repurposed may require time and expenditures for conversion for optimal use in different shale region or for a different service. A drilling shift away from or slowdown in shales in which we have assets could result in asset-related charges and decreased revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There are risks inherent in utilizing disposal wells and other disposal sites in our energy logistics business. Rights to deposit flowback and/or production water in disposal wells and other disposal sites proximate to our shales are essential to our energy logistics business. We currently achieve these rights in the various shales in which we operate through well ownership and through contracts with third parties. Neither we nor the third parties with whom we contract can control the performance of disposal wells. Even though a well is legally permitted to accept a certain amount of water, there is no assurance that the well or any specific zone in the well will be capable of absorbing an anticipated amount. Disposal wells may also be ruined or rendered unusable during operations due to technical or mechanical difficulties or natural disaster. Disposal wells can encounter problems that render the well unusable even after a period of successful operation. Further, we will be obligated to retire wells that we own following their productive use in compliance with applicable laws. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully operate or access any specific disposal well or other disposal site, or will be able to obtain sufficient well or other disposal site access to achieve efficient operation in any shale. There can be no assurance that our estimates of the useful lives and costs of retirement of wells that we own will prove accurate. We are self-insured and/or have deductible exposure to certain claims and are subject to the fluctuation of the insurance marketplace, all of which could affect our profitability. The primary accident risks associated with our business are: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage; • workers’ compensation claims; • environmental pollution liability claims; • cargo loss and damage; and • general liability claims. 19 Table of Contents We currently maintain insurance for: • motor-vehicle related bodily injury and property damage claims, covering all employees, independent owner operators and independent affiliates; • workers’ compensation insurance coverage on our employees and company drivers; • environmental pollution liability claims; and • general liability claims. Our insurance program includes a self insured deductible of $2.0 million per incident for bodily injury and property damage and a $1.0 million deductible for workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently maintain insurance policies with a total limit of $40.0 million, of which $35.0 million is provided under umbrella and excess liability policies and $5.0 million is provided under a truckers’ liability policy. The $2.0 million deductible per incident could adversely affect our profitability, particularly in the event of an increase in the frequency or severity of incidents. Additionally, we are self-insured for damage to the equipment that we own and lease, as well as for cargo losses and such self-insurance is not subject to any maximum limitation. We extend insurance coverage to our independent affiliates and independent owner-operators for (i) motor vehicle related bodily injury, (ii) motor-vehicle related property damage, and (iii) cargo loss and damage. Under this extended coverage, independent affiliates and independent owner-operators are responsible for only a small portion of the applicable deductibles. In addition, even where we have insurance, our insurance policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against us or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. We are subject to changing conditions and pricing in the insurance marketplace and we cannot assure you that the cost or availability of various types of insurance may not change dramatically in the future. To the extent these costs cannot be passed on to our customers in increased prices, increases in insurance costs could reduce our future profitability and cash flow. The trucking industry is subject to regulation, and changes in trucking regulations may increase costs. As a motor carrier, we are subject to regulation by the FMCSA and the DOT, and by various federal, state, and provincial agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers governing various aspects such as operating authority, safety, hours of service, hazardous materials transportation, financial reporting and acquisitions. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment, product-handling requirements and drug testing of drivers. In 2012, we underwent a compliance review by the FMCSA in which we retained our satisfactory DOT safety rating. Any downgrade in our DOT safety rating (as a result of the new CSA regulations described below or otherwise) could adversely affect our business. In December 2010, the FMCSA began to rate individual driver safety performance inclusive of all driver violations over 3-year time periods under regulations known as the CSA. CSA is an FMCSA initiative designed to provide motor carriers and drivers with attention from FMCSA and state partners about their potential safety problems with an ultimate goal of achieving a greater reduction in large truck and bus crashes, injuries, and fatalities. Prior to these regulations, only carriers were rated by the DOT and the rating only included out-of-service violations and ticketed offenses associated with out-of-service violations. 20 Table of Contents The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices, emissions or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing trucking services. Possible changes include: • increasingly stringent environmental regulations, including changes intended to address climate change; • restrictions, taxes or other controls on emissions; • regulation specific to the fracing industry and logistics providers to the industry; • changes in the hours-of-service regulations, which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period; • requirements leading to accelerated purchases of new trailers; • mandatory limits on vehicle weight and size; • driver hiring restrictions; • increased bonding or insurance requirements; and • mandatory regulations imposed by the Department of Homeland Security. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels and emissions, which may increase our or our independent affiliates’ operating costs, require capital expenditures or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. Restrictions on emissions or other climate change laws or regulations could also affect our customers that use significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels in producing or delivering the products we carry. We also could lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions upon us or our oil and gas frac shale energy customers in the energy logistics market. Frac shale drilling is under significant legislative, regulatory and public scrutiny. Legislation to modify the treatment of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act has been proposed in Congress, the EPA is studying the potential environmental impacts of frac shale drilling activities, and the U.S. Department of the Interior has proposed to require companies to publicly disclose the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations on public lands. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are reportedly considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict frac shale drilling and injection wells in certain circumstances, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on us or on our energy logistics market customers. For example, North Dakota has adopted regulations requiring the permitting and bonding of injection wells and disclosure of fluids utilized in the hydraulic fracturing process. Similarly, Texas has adopted fluids disclosure requirements. Moreover, public debate over frac shale drilling has been increasing and has reportedly resulted in delays of well permits in some areas. Future U.S. federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with, hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, including in injection wells, and otherwise increase our and our customers’ costs of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could negatively impact our operation of disposal wells, result in a decline in demand for our energy logistics business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations involve hazardous materials, which could create environmental liabilities. Our activities, particularly those relating to our handling, transportation, storage and disposal of bulk chemicals, flowback and produced water and oil, are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation by governmental authorities in the United States as well as foreign governmental authorities. Among other things, these environmental laws and regulations address emissions to the air, discharges onto land and into water, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the health and safety of our employees. These laws generally require us to obtain and maintain various licenses and permits. Most environmental laws provide for substantial fines, penalties and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Additionally, we have been, and may in the future be required to obtain financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, for environmental obligations. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to 21 Table of Contents become stricter over time. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. There can be no assurance that violations of such laws, regulations, permits or licenses will not be identified or occur in the future, or that such laws and regulations will not change in a manner that could impose material costs on us. As a handler of hazardous substances, we are potentially subject to strict, joint and several liability for investigating and rectifying the consequences of spills, leakage from injection wells and other environmental releases of these substances to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. We have incurred remedial costs and regulatory penalties for chemical, crude oil or wastewater spills and releases at our facilities or over the road. As a result of environmental studies conducted at our facilities or at third party sites, we have identified environmental contamination at certain sites that will require remediation and we are currently conducting investigation and remediation projects at eight of our facilities. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property purchased by us. Future liabilities and costs under environmental, health, and safety laws are not easily predicted, and such liabilities could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business reputation. In addition, we have been named a potentially responsible party at various sites under the CERCLA and other environmental regulatory programs. Our current reserves provided for these sites may prove insufficient, which would result in future charges against earnings. Furthermore, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other sites in the future and the costs associated with such future sites could be material. Potential disruptions at U.S. ports of entry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption of the delivery of intermodal ISO tank containers to those ports where we do business would reduce the number of intermodal tank containers that we transport, store, clean or maintain. This reduced activity may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. Political events in the Middle East, Venezuela, and elsewhere, as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events, and current and future legislation (such as market-based (cap-and-trade) greenhouse gas emissions control mechanisms), also may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have recovered the majority of the increases in fuel prices from chemical logistics and intermodal customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected may not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent fuel surcharges are insufficient to offset our fuel costs or we are unable to continue passing on increased fuel costs to our customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The loss of qualified drivers or other personnel could limit our growth and negatively affect operations. During periods of high trucking volumes, there is substantial competition for qualified drivers in the trucking industry. Regulatory requirements, including CSA (discussed above), and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers. Furthermore, certain geographic areas have a greater shortage of qualified drivers than other areas. We operate in many of the geographic areas where there have been driver shortages in the past and have turned down new business opportunities as a result of the lack of qualified new drivers. Our voluntary implementation of EOBRs prior to implementation of the regulatory requirement resulted in greater driver turnover in 2011 and 2012 and could become an on-going competitive disadvantage until our competitors are compelled to implement EOBRs as we anticipate. Difficulty in attracting qualified personnel, particularly qualified drivers, could require us to increase driver compensation, forego available customer opportunities and underutilize the tractors and trailers in our network. These actions could result in increased costs and decreased revenues. In addition, we may not be able to recruit other qualified personnel in the future. Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future wars or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks and fingerprinting of drivers in connection with new hazardous materials endorsements on their licenses. Such existing measures and future measures may have significant costs associated with them which a motor carrier is forced to bear. Moreover, large trucks carrying toxic chemicals are potential terrorist targets, and we may be obligated to take measures, including possible capital expenditures intended to protect our trucks. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could continue to increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. 22 Table of Contents We depend on members of our senior management. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends in large part on the continued employment of our senior management team. If members of senior management become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business or financial results could be adversely affected. Our goodwill and long-lived assets are subject to potential asset impairment. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $141.9 million, or approximately 27.6% of our total assets and approximately 39.9% of our non-current assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. In addition, at December 31, 2012, net property and equipment totaled approximately $190.3 million, or approximately 37.1% of our total assets. We review for potential goodwill impairment on an annual basis as part of our goodwill impairment testing in the second quarter of each year with a measurement date of June 30, and more often if a triggering event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. If there are changes to the methods used to allocate carrying values, if management’s estimates of future operating results change, if there are changes in the identified reporting units or if there are changes to other significant assumptions, the estimated carrying values and the estimated fair value of our goodwill could change significantly, and could result in future impairment charges, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Although we expect the Greensville, Trojan, Bice and Dunn’s acquisitions to be beneficial, their expected benefits may not be realized, in the time frame anticipated or at all, because of integration or other challenges and we may become liable for liabilities of which we are currently unaware. Achieving the expected benefits of the Greensville, Trojan, Bice and Dunn’s acquisitions will depend on the timely and efficient integration of their operations, business culture, technology and personnel with our Company. The integration may not be completed as quickly as expected, and if we fail to effectively integrate the companies or the integration takes longer than expected, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions. In particular, to date the Bice and Dunn’s acquisitions have not produced results consistent with our expectations. The challenges involved in acquisitions include, among others: • potential disruption on our ongoing business and distraction of management, • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of Greensville, Trojan, Bice and Dunn’s, • conforming Greensville, Trojan, Bice and Dunn’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, • hiring additional management and other critical personnel, and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. We conducted due diligence investigations of Greensville, Trojan, Bice and Dunn’s operations prior to consummating these acquisitions. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts were sufficient to uncover all material information concerning such operations. As a result of such acquisitions, we may be held liable for risks and liabilities (including environmental-related costs or liabilities at disposal wells previously operated by Bice or Dunn’s or otherwise) of which we are not aware at the present time, some of which may not have been discoverable from our due diligence efforts. We may be unable to successfully realize all of the intended benefits from future acquisitions, and we may be unable to identify or realize the intended benefits of potential future acquisition candidates. We may be unable to realize all of the intended benefits of any future acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we continually evaluate potential future acquisitions, some of which could be material, and engage in discussions with acquisition candidates. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we assure you that our acquisition strategies will be viewed positively by customers or achieve their intended benefits. Often acquisitions are undertaken to improve the operating results of either or both the acquirer and the acquired company and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We will encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management’s attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Increased unionization could increase our operating costs or constrain operating flexibility. Although only approximately 2.4% of our driver population, including independent owner-operators and employees of independent affiliates, was subject to collective bargaining agreements at December 31, 2012, unions such as the International Brotherhood of Teamsters have traditionally been active in the U.S. trucking industry. Unionized workers could disrupt our operations by strike, work stoppage or other slowdown. In addition, our non-union workforce has been subject to unionization efforts in the past, and we could be subject to future unionization. Increased unionization of our workforce could result in higher compensation and working condition demands that could increase our operating costs or constrain our operating flexibility. If we withdraw from any of our multi-employer pension plans, we will be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. By their nature, multi-employer pension plans carry with them risks that differ from single-employer plans. We contribute to multi-employer pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our collective bargaining agreements. Other, unrelated, employers contribute to (or have contributed to) those multi-employer plans pursuant to their respective collective bargaining agreements. Assets contributed by an employer to a multi-employer pension plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to the employees of that contributing employer. If a participating employer to a multi-employer pension plan no longer contributes to the plan, as has happened in the past and may happen in the future, the unfunded obligations of the plan, including obligations to former employees of the no longer-contributing employer, may be borne by the remaining participating employers, such as us. In the event of the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, union decertification, the mass withdrawal of other employers or if we withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we would have material liabilities for our share of the unfunded vested liabilities of such plan. As of December 31, 2012, we contributed to three multi-employer pension plans for employees under collective bargaining agreements. Two of those multi-employer pension plans, the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund (“Central States plan”) and the New York State Teamsters Conference Pension and Retirement Fund, have been classified as carrying red zone status under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “PPA”), indicating that they are less than 65% funded, while the other multi-employer pension plan to which we contributed, Employer-Teamsters Local Nos. 175 & 505 Pension Trust Fund, is classified as carrying yellow zone status under the PPA, indicating that it is less than 80% funded. We do not currently intend to withdraw from the remaining three multi-employer pension plans or take any actions that would subject us to payment of contingent obligations upon withdrawal. However, the actions of others could trigger this withdrawal liability. Based on information provided to us from the trustees of these remaining plans, we estimate our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination from these remaining plans to be approximately $73.8 million, of which $68.8 million relates to the Central States plan, and may increase in future years. In the event that we were required to pay this unfunded liability, such payment, if it could be made at all, would have a material impact on our liquidity, operations and financial results. New markets such as the energy logistics market have risks with which we have limited experience, and we may not be able to operate profitably in these markets and may lose our investment. We entered into the energy logistics market in 2011 and expanded these activities through a series of acquisitions, as well as through organic growth during 2012. Although we have identified our existing contracts in this market as a source of revenue growth, we may prove unable to perform these contracts and earn anticipated revenue. We have limited experience performing energy logistics services or serving natural gas or oil drilling customers. We plan to leverage our existing network of affiliates to expand our energy market business, but our existing network may prove unsuitable for this new business. Also, our market expansion requires certain capital expenditures for specialized trailers and other start-up costs that we may be unable to recoup. Hydraulic fracturing is under significant legislative and regulatory scrutiny, the adoption of new laws or regulations at the federal, state or local level could adversely affect our customers’ hydraulic fracturing operations, which could reduce demand for our logistics services. In addition, heightened political, regulatory and public scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, whether directly or indirectly. As we expand our business into this new market, we may face increased risks due to the cyclical nature of the energy industry. Depending on the market prices of oil and gas, customers in that industry may delay and decrease their capital and development expenditures, reducing the demand for our transportation services. Such market volatility may lead to fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter. Natural gas prices in recent years have been at historic lows, leading some large producers to announce reduced fracing drilling. If this continues, it could reduce our revenues. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete in this new market or that our operations in this market will be successful. If we are unsuccessful, our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a single shareholder who can substantially influence the outcome of all matters voted upon by our shareholders and prevent actions which a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. As of March 1, 2013, Apollo Investment Fund III, L.P. and its affiliated funds (“Apollo”) were our largest shareholder and owned or controlled approximately 17.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Apollo can influence substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions, an unsolicited tender offer and any other matters requiring a vote of shareholders. Three of our board members are partners or employees of Apollo. This concentration of ownership and board representation could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination that a shareholder may otherwise view favorably. Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and Florida law may prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Florida law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares in order to control a takeover attempt which the Board viewed unfavorably; • elimination of the voting rights of shareholders with respect to shares that are acquired without prior Board approval that would otherwise entitle such shareholder to exercise certain amounts of voting power in the election of directors; and • prohibition on business combinations with interested shareholders unless particular conditions are met. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and result in dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2013, there are approximately 27.0 million shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 5.9 million shares of common stock, as of March 1, 2013, are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or are held by affiliates. In addition, as of March 1, 2013, we have 1.4 million shares of common stock available for issuance under our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan. As of March 1, 2013, there were outstanding options for approximately 2.3 million shares and outstanding warrants of less than 0.1 million shares of our common stock. Exercise of the warrants and of options that are in-the-money will result in dilution to existing shareholders in an amount equal to the difference in the market and exercise prices multiplied by the number of shares exercised. In addition, prior to their exercise, these options and warrants may depress the market price for our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the ABL Facility and indentures governing our 2018 Notes contain certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on one’s investment. This may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 