ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Owning Our Stock Market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. From January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006, the price per share of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.95 to a high of $9.80. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In the past, volatility in the market price of a company’s securities has often led to securities class action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our attention and resources, which could harm our business. Declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could also harm our ability to retain key employees, reduce our access to capital and otherwise harm our business. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; · changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers. I-8 We cannot assure you that we will be profitable. Our Professional Market segment revenues from market data services experienced significant declines since 2001 from a combination of staffing reductions in the securities industry, the use by customers of internally developed services, or lower priced services offered by us or other vendors. This trend has continued in 2007. One customer, with monthly revenues of approximately $90,000, cancelled a customized market data service in March, 2007. Despite the addition of new subscribers to Track ECN, the Company has not been able to significantly increase revenues. Profit margins are very low in this business and significant volume is necessary to have an impact on the results of operations. In addition, Track ECN had been dependent on Nasdaq's trading platform to display and execute most of its subscriber orders until October 23, 2006, when Nasdaq fully implemented its new trading platform and pricing that forced Track ECN to operate elsewhere. Track ECN initially moved all its business to the NASDs ADF. It currently displays orders on the ADF and on the NSX. There has been a significant decline in volume since the move. Regulation NMS which will require best price for Nasdaq stocks has been a major help in Track ECN establishing direct connectivity to major market makers and takers of liquidity. Further, it is anticipated that Track ECN will be able to offer listed business to its subscribers. Until recent regulatory changes, Track ECN was unable to offer its subscribers any payment for adding liquidity in listed stocks. Our Non-Professional Market segment revenues have been inconsistent month to month. The Company is attempting to grow revenues in this segment, principally through marketing alliances and limited advertising to attract new customers, and by offering additional services to existing customers. The Company presently offers trading of U.S. based stocks, options and e-mini futures. Although the Company has recently introduced a new low priced trading application, myTrack Pro, engineered for the hyperactive traders, with a particular focus on options traders, there is no assurance the Company will be successful in marketing such new services. We also engage in arbitrage trading activity. Our trading strategy consists principally of establishing hedged positions consisting of stocks and options. We are subject to market risk in attempting to establish a hedged position, as the market prices could change, precluding a profitable hedge. In these instances, any positions that were established for this hedge would be immediately sold, usually resulting in small losses. If the hedged positions are successfully established at the prices sought, the positions generally stay until the next option expiration date, resulting in small gains, regardless of market value changes in these securities. While virtually all positions are liquidated at option expiration date, certain stock positions remain. The liquidation of these positions generally results in small profits or losses. From time to time, losses may result from certain dividends that may have to be delivered on positions held, as well as from certain corporate restructurings and mergers that may not have been taken into account when the positions were originally established. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS123(R)”), which among other things requires public companies to expense employee stock options and other share-based payments at their fair value when issued commencing January 1, 2006. No options were issued in 2006. At December 31, 2005, all of our outstanding stock options were fully vested. As such, the adoption of SFAS 123(R) had no effect on net income for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect that the adoption of this statement may have a material impact on our net income (loss) and earnings per share in future periods, upon the issuance of new awards. As a result of this impact on our financial results, we may be forced to decrease or eliminate employee stock option grants, which could, in turn, have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our officers, directors and largest stockholder have the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval and control the issuance of preferred stock. Our Principal Stockholder may be able to control matters requiring a stockholder vote, such as unsolicited takeovers which may prevent investors from receiving a premium on their shares. As of February 28, 2007, Barry Hertz, who served as the Company’s Chairman and CEO until his resignation on March 16, 2007, directly or indirectly controlled approximately 56% of our shares. He is in a position to control the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors. Such control could have the effect of discouraging, or making more difficult, an unsolicited acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though an unsolicited acquisition could have resulted in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares or be otherwise economically beneficial to them. I-9 Our right to issue preferred stock could dilute or diminish the value of existing investors' common stock. Our governing documents authorize the issuance of up to five million shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Depending on the designations, rights and preferences of a particular issuance of preferred stock, such issuance could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Our right to issue preferred stock could also make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. Success of stockholder actions against directors is less likely as our directors' liability for their actions is limited and we may indemnify them if they are sued. Our governing documents limit the liability of our directors for breach of their fiduciary duty of care. The effect is to eliminate liability of directors for monetary damages arising out of negligent or grossly negligent conduct. Stockholder actions against our directors for monetary damages can only be maintained upon a showing of certain factors and not for director's negligence or gross negligence in satisfying their duty of care. The factors required to obtain monetary damages are a breach of the individual director's duty of loyalty, a failure to act in good faith, intentional misconduct, a knowing violation of the law, an improper personal benefit, or an illegal dividend or stock purchase. These documents also provide for indemnification as permitted by Delaware law. However, insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to our directors, officers or controlling persons pursuant to the foregoing provisions, we have been informed that in the opinion of the Commission such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Act and is therefore unenforceable. We may not pay dividends on our common stock. We have paid dividends in the past but have not done so since March, 2004. There is currently no plan to pay dividends in the near future. Dividends in the future, if any, will be based on factors, among others, relating to future earnings and capital requirements and to the discretion of our board of directors. Risks Relating to the Nature of the Financial Services Business Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and offer a wider range of financial products and services. Many also have greater name recognition, greater market acceptance and larger customer bases. These competitors may conduct extensive promotional activities and offer better terms, lower prices and/or different products and services than we do. Moreover, some of our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and services. This means that our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and demands and withstand changing market conditions better than we can. This intense competition has resulted in several trends that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including the implementation of new pricing strategies, consolidation in the industry and increased emphasis on advertising and promotional efforts. We face direct competition from numerous online and software-based brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., E*TRADE Group, Inc., Options Express, TD Ameritrade, Inc. and TradeStation Group, Inc. We also encounter competition from the broker-dealer affiliates of established full commission brokerage firms, as well as from financial institutions, mutual fund sponsors and other organizations, some of which provide online brokerage services. We believe that the general financial success of companies within the online securities industry will continue to attract new competitors to the industry, such as banks, software development companies, insurance companies, providers of online financial information and others. These companies may provide a more comprehensive suite of services than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors. I-10 A decline in activity levels in the securities markets could lower demand for our services. Our business is dependent upon the health of the financial markets as well as the financial health of the participants in those markets. Some of the demand for financial data and information is dependent upon activity levels in the securities markets while other demand is static and is not dependent on activity levels. In the event that the U.S. or international financial markets suffer a prolonged downturn that results in a significant decline in investor activity, our revenue levels could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced higher than normal cancellations or downgrades as a result of the cost cutting pressures evident in the financial services sector in recent years and such cancellations or downgrades may continue. Consolidation of financial services within and across industries could lower demand for our services. As consolidation occurs and synergies are achieved, the number of potential customers for our services decreases. This consolidation has two forms: consolidations within an industry, such as banking, and across industries, such as consolidations of insurance, banking and brokerage companies. When two companies that separately subscribe to or use our services combine, they may terminate or reduce duplicative subscriptions for our services or if they are billed on a usage basis, usage may decline due to synergies created by the business combination. We experienced higher than normal cancellations in recent years as a result of this trend and these consolidations and cancellations may continue. A large number of cancellations, or lower utilization resulting from consolidations, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. The continuing impact of cost-cutting pressures across the financial services industry could cause lower demand for our services. Many customers within the financial services industry are striving to reduce their operating costs. To achieve this goal, customers may seek to reduce their spending on market data services. If customers elect to reduce their spending with us, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on market data services, either by consolidating their spending with a fewer number of vendors or by selecting vendors with lower-cost offerings. If customers elect to consolidate their spending on market data services with other vendors and not us, or if we cannot price our services as aggressively as the competition, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Servicing customers outside the United States involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could negatively impact our financial results. To date, our operations are principally located in the United States, with Internet access to our products from outside the United States. Since our services are available over the Internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business in their country. We believe that the number of our customers residing outside of the United States will increase over time. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to Internet services available to their citizens from service providers located elsewhere. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, in the future we may choose to offer foreign securities brokerage services. There are certain risks inherent in doing so. Among other risks, we may face less developed technological infrastructures, less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems, exchange rate fluctuations, increased credit risk and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers. If we choose to do business through an international entity, we may also face barriers to repatriation of foreign earnings. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and consequently on our business, financial condition and operating results. I-11 If we fail to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our profitability and growth may be impaired. Our profitability and growth depends on increasing our customer base in a cost-effective manner. We expect to increase our advertising and related expenses. There are no assurances that these efforts will be cost-effective at attracting new customers. In particular, we believe that rates for desirable advertising and marketing placements are likely to increase in the foreseeable future, and we may be disadvantaged relative to our larger competitors in our ability to expand or maintain our advertising and marketing commitments. Additionally, filter software programs that limit or prevent our advertisements and other communications from being displayed on or delivered to our current and potential customers’ computers are becoming increasingly available. If this type of software becomes widely accepted, it would negatively affect Internet advertising. Finally, our sales and marketing methods are subject to regulation by the NASD. Their rules and regulations impose specific limitations on our sales methods, including our advertising and payments to non-broker-dealers. If we do not achieve our advertising objectives, our profitability and growth may be impaired. We are subject to various forms of credit risk, and those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. Through an arrangement with our clearing firms, we extend margin credit and leverage to our customers, which is subject to various regulatory and clearing firm margin requirements. Margin credit is collateralized by cash and securities in the customers’ accounts. Leverage involves securing a large potential future obligation with a proportional amount of cash or securities. The risks associated with margin credit and leverage increase during periods of fast market movements or in cases where leverage or collateral is concentrated and market movements occur. During such times, customers who utilize margin credit or leverage and who have collateralized their obligations with securities may find that the securities have a rapidly depreciating value and may not be sufficient to cover their obligations in the event of a liquidation. We are also exposed to credit risk when our customers execute transactions, such as short sales of options and equities that can expose them to risk beyond their invested capital. We expect this kind of exposure to increase with growth in our overall business. Because we indemnify and hold harmless our clearing firms from certain liabilities or claims, the use of margin credit, leverage and short sales may expose us to significant off-balance-sheet risk in the event that collateral requirements are not sufficient to fully cover losses that customers may incur and those customers fail to satisfy their obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $11.8 million in margin credit extended to our customers through our clearing firms. The amount of risk to which we are exposed from the leverage we extend to our customers and from short sale transactions by our customers is unlimited and not quantifiable as the risk is dependent upon analysis of a potential significant and undeterminable rise or fall in stock prices. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks may fail to be effective. As a result, we face the risk of losses, including losses resulting from firm errors, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering. Our risk management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. Some of our methods of managing risk are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on industry standard practices. These methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. These methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing technical software or hardware failures. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our business. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and penalties. I-12 Systems failures and delays could harm our business. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels. Our online trading services are heavily dependent on the integrity of the systems supporting them. Our systems and operations, including our Web servers, and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, sabotage, encryption failures, break-ins, intentional acts of vandalism, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems and operations, and similar events. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. In addition, extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Systems failures or delays may occur in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our customers desire, decreased levels of customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer: a loss of customers or a reduction in the growth of our customer base; increased operating expenses; financial losses; litigation or other customer claims; and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. Our business also depends on the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of Internet users continues to increase, or if existing or future Internet users access the Internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or our customers’ confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We or our service providers may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We or our service providers may not be able to implement security measures that will protect against all security risks. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business. Our success and ability to compete in the online securities industry depends in part upon our technology. Laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might try to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, allowing competitors to duplicate our products. We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against such illegal use, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. We may choose not to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us. I-13 Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our major competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain and may have obtained patents related to the technologies for trading the types of products and providing the services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe on patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, protection may not be available for our other intellectual property. Although we have registered trademarks in the United States, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure significant protection for these marks. It is possible that our competitors will adopt product or service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Our inability to adequately protect our trademarks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We will need to introduce new products and services to remain competitive. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems obsolete. There are significant technical and financial risks in the development of new or enhanced products and services, including the risk that we will be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our services to emerging industry standards, or develop, introduce and market enhanced or new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. We may make acquisitions, and we may be unable to successfully integrate those acquisitions with our business, impairing our financial performance. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. If we do succeed in acquiring a business, product or technology, we have limited experience in integrating an acquisition into our business. The process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant attention of our management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business, which may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on our clearing agent, Penson Financial Services, Inc., and any failure by them or difficulties in our relationship could materially harm our business. We are dependent on Penson Financial Services, Inc. and certain other clearing agents for the orderly processing of transactions. Our principal relationship is with Penson. I-14 Our clearing agreement with Penson may be terminated by either party upon 45 days prior written notice. Breaches or termination of these agreements or the clearing firms’ agreements with their third-party suppliers could harm our business. Termination of our relationship with Penson could expose us to certain capital reserve requirements and other complex regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless our clearing firms from certain liabilities or claims, including claims arising from the transactions of our customers, and may incur significant costs as a result. The loss of or change in our third-party vendors may adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of third parties for various services. These include the services of market makers and exchanges to execute customer orders and other third parties for back-office services and other information necessary to run our business, including transaction summaries, data feeds for compliance and risk management, execution reports and trade confirmations. The stock and option exchange and other third-party content providers provide us with all of the financial information, market news, charts, option and stock quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we offer to customers. In addition, Track ECN had been dependent on Nasdaq's trading platform to display and execute most of its subscriber orders until October 23, 2006, when Nasdaq fully implemented its new trading platform and pricing that forced Track ECN to operate elsewhere. Track ECN initially moved all its business to the NASDs ADF. It currently displays orders on the ADF and on the NSX. There has been a significant decline in volume since the move. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any third-party service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, unanticipated trading market closures or for any other reason, and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a smooth and timely manner, if at all, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our exposure to possible litigation could adversely affect our business. Because of the extent and complexity of our regulatory environment and the products we offer, many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In recent years, there has been an increasing incidence of litigation involving the securities brokerage industry, including class action and other suits that generally seek substantial damages, including in some cases punitive damages. Any such litigation brought in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We also face potential indirect liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, violation of the securities laws and other claims based upon the third-party content that we distribute online. Computer failures may also result in our widely publishing and distributing incorrect data. Our insurance may not necessarily cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. Any such litigation brought in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Losses due to employee or customer fraud could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to potential losses resulting from fraud and other misconduct by employees and customers. Employees may bind us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, hide from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities or improperly use confidential information. Customers may engage in fraudulent activities, including fraudulent access to legitimate customer accounts or the use of a false identity to open an account, or the use of forged or counterfeit checks for payment. Such types of fraud may be difficult to prevent or detect, and we may not be able to recover the losses caused by such activities. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. I-15 Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business We operate in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could adversely affect our business. We operate under extensive regulation, which increases our cost of doing business and is a limiting factor on the operations and development of our business. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the NASD, the NFA and other self-regulatory organizations, commonly called SROs, and state securities commissions regulate us. Outside the United States, we also may be subject to regulation by securities regulatory authorities in the countries where our customers are located. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation covering all aspects of the securities business, including: sales methods; trade practices; use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities; capital structure; record-keeping; financing of customers’ purchases; and conduct of directors, officers and employees. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to us, even inadvertently, could lead to adverse consequences including censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or disqualification of directors, officers or employees. In the past, certain reviews have resulted in the Company incurring fines and required the Company to change certain of its internal control and operating procedures. Any of these adverse consequences could affect our business. It is also possible that any noncompliance could subject us to criminal penalties and civil lawsuits. An adverse ruling against us or our officers or other employees could cause our subsidiaries or our officers and other employees to pay a substantial fine or settlement, and could result in their suspension or expulsion. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls for the year ended December 31, 2007 and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system on internal controls. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The regulatory environment in which we operate may change. These changes may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. Our activities may be affected not only by legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations. The SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental authorities, the NASD or other SROs may adopt new or revised regulations which affect our business. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by those entities may also affect our business. Until October, 2006, Track ECN displayed orders submitted by its subscribers on Nasdaq's trading platform. Broker-dealers could access this liquidity through Nasdaq. Nasdaq was authorized to operate as an exchange and Track ECN was no longer able to operate its business on Nasdaq’s platform. Track ECN currently operates on NASD’s ADF and NSX Blade platforms. This change has resulted in significantly lower revenues in the short term. I-16 In addition, we use the Internet as the distribution channel to provide services to our customers. A number of regulatory agencies have recently adopted regulations regarding customer privacy and the use of customer information by service providers. Additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet may be adopted in the future, including regulations regarding the pricing, taxation, content and quality of products and services delivered over the Internet. Complying with these laws and regulations is expensive and time consuming and could limit our ability to use the Internet as a distribution channel. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business. The SEC, the NASD and other SROs have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiary is required to comply with the net capital requirements. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC could fine us or even suspend or revoke our registration, or the NASD could sanction us, including by limiting our growth or expelling us from membership. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. The net capital requirements also provide that the SEC may restrict for up to 20 business days any withdrawal of equity capital, or unsecured loans or advances to stockholders, employees or affiliates, commonly called capital withdrawal, if the capital withdrawal, together with all other net capital withdrawals during a 30-day period, exceeds 30% of excess net capital and the SEC concludes that the capital withdrawal may be detrimental to the financial integrity of the broker-dealer. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiary is subject to laws and regulations, including the Patriot Act of 2001, that require that it know its customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the Patriot Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As an online broker with customers worldwide, we may face particular difficulties in identifying our customers and monitoring their activities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 