Item 1a. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business During economic downturns or a rising interest rate environment, the cyclical nature of our business results in lower demand for our products and reduced revenue. The railcar business is cyclical. Overall economic conditions and the purchasing habits of railcar buyers have a significant effect upon our railcar manufacturing, refurbishment & parts and leasing & services businesses due to the impact on demand for new, refurbished, used and leased products. As a result, during downturns, we operate with a lower level of backlog and may temporarily slowdown or halt production at some or all of our facilities. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause some of our leasing customers to lease fewer of our railcars or demand shorter terms. An economic downturn or increase in interest rates may reduce demand for railcars, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices, lower lease utilization rates and decreased profits or losses. The failure of the rail freight industry to perform as forecasted by industry analysts may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part upon continued performance of the rail freight industry. If railcar loadings do not materialize as forecasted by industry analysts, railcar replacement rates do not increase or industry demand for railcar products does not continue at current levels due to price increases or other reasons, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We compete in a highly competitive and concentrated industry, and this competition or industry consolidation may adversely impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition by a concentrated group of competitors in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. Some of these companies have significantly greater resources or may operate more efficiently than us. The effect of this competition could reduce our revenues and margins, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. In addition, because of the concentrated nature of our competitors, customers and suppliers, we face a heightened risk that further consolidation in the industry among or between our competitors, customers and suppliers could adversely affect our revenues, cost of revenues and profitability. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers, the loss of one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few major customers such as Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad, TTX Company and Union Pacific Railroad. Although we have some long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, we cannot assure you that our customers will continue to use our products or services or that they will continue to do so at historical levels. A reduction in the purchase or leasing of our products or a termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Fluctuations in the availability and price of steel and other raw materials could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis. A significant portion of our business depends upon the adequate supply of steel at competitive prices and a small number of suppliers provide a substantial amount of our requirements. The cost of steel (including scrap metal) and all other materials used in the production of our railcars represents over two-thirds of our direct manufacturing costs per railcar. Our businesses depend upon the adequate supply of other raw materials, including castings and specialty components, at competitive prices. Although we believe we have multiple sources for these raw materials, the number of suppliers has generally declined while global demand has increased. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to suppliers of necessary components for manufacturing railcars. Our ability to meet 10 The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report Table of Contents demand for our products could be adversely affected by the loss of access to any of these suppliers, the inability to arrange alternative access to any materials, or suppliers limiting allocation of materials to us. If the price of steel or other raw materials were to increase and we were unable to increase our selling prices or have adequate protection in our contracts to do so or reduce operating costs to offset the price increases, our margins would be adversely affected. The loss of suppliers or their inability to meet our price, quality, quantity and delivery requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis. Our backlog may not be necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. Our new railcar backlog is the number of railcars for which we have written orders from our customers in various periods and estimated potential revenue attributable to the backlog. Some of this backlog is subject to our fulfillment of certain competitive conditions. Although we believe backlog is an indicator of our future revenues, our reported backlog may not be converted to revenue in any particular period, and actual revenue from such contracts may not equal our backlog revenues. Therefore, our backlog may not necessarily be indicative of the level of our future revenues. The timing of our lease remarketing and railcar sales may cause significant differences in our quarterly results and liquidity. We may build railcars in anticipation of a customer order, or that are leased to a customer and ultimately sold to a third-party. The difference in timing of production of the railcars and the sale could cause a fluctuation in our quarterly results and liquidity. In addition, we periodically sell railcars from our own lease fleet and the timing and volume of such sales is difficult to predict. As a result, comparisons of our quarterly revenues, income and liquidity between quarterly periods within one year and between comparable periods in different years may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. A change in our product mix, failure to design or manufacture products or technologies or achieve certification or market acceptance of new products or technologies and introduction of products by our competitors could have an adverse effect on our profitability and competitive position. We manufacture and repair a variety of railcars. The demand for specific types of these railcars varies from time to time. These shifts in demand may affect our margins and could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We continue to introduce new railcar products and technologies and periodically accept orders prior to receipt of railcar certification or proof of ability to manufacture a quality product that meets customer standards. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new railcar products and technologies. Our inability to develop and manufacture such new products in a timely and profitable manner, to obtain certification, achieve market acceptance or the existence of quality problems in our new products would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations and subject us to penalties, cancellation of the order and/or other damages. Subsequent to August 31, 2007, a multi-year order was received for tank cars which are scheduled for delivery beginning in the first quarter of 2009. We have not previously designed, certified or manufactured tank cars for the North American market. In addition, new technologies, changes in product mix or the introduction of new railcars and product offerings by our competitors could render our products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. We may be unable to remarket leased railcars on favorable terms upon lease termination or realize the expected residual values, which could reduce our revenue and decrease our overall return. We re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms. The total rental payments we receive under our operating leases do not fully amortize the acquisition costs of the leased equipment, which exposes us to risks associated with remarketing the railcars. Our ability to remarket leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, but not limited to, market and industry conditions, cost of and demand for newer models, costs associated with the refurbishment of the railcars and interest rates. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in reduced revenues and decrease our overall return. The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents A reduction in negotiated or arbitrated car hire rates could reduce future car hire revenue. A significant portion of our leasing and services revenue is derived from “car hire,” which is a fee that a railroad pays for the use of railcars owned by other railroads or third parties. Until 1992, the Interstate Commerce Commission directly regulated car hire rates by prescribing a formula for calculating these rates. The system of government prescribed rates has been superseded by a system known as deprescription, whereby railcar owners and users have the right to negotiate car hire rates. If the railcar owner and railcar user cannot come to an agreement on a car hire rate, then either party has the right to call for arbitration, in which either the owner’s or user’s rate is selected by the arbitrator to be effective for a one-year period. Substantially all railcars in our fleet are subject to deprescription. There is a risk that car hire rates could be negotiated or arbitrated to lower levels in the future. A reduction in car hire rates could reduce future car hire revenue and adversely affect our financial results. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States could adversely impact our operating results. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries in which we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance and manufacturing. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. The uncertainty of the legal environment or geo-political risks in these and other areas could limit our ability to enforce our rights effectively. Any international expansion or acquisition that we undertake could amplify these risks related to operating outside of the United States. Some of our employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppage could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions in Mexico. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot assure you that our relations with our workforce will remain positive or that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize at some of our other facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with lay-offs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of our operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to increased costs and lower profitability. Outside of the United States, we operate in Mexico, Germany, Canada and Poland, and our non-U.S. businesses conduct their operations in local currencies and other regional currencies. We also source materials worldwide. Fluctuation in exchange rates may affect demand for our products in foreign markets or our cost competitiveness and may adversely affect our profitability. Although we attempt to mitigate a portion of our exposure to changes in currency rates through currency rate hedges, similar financial instruments and other activities, these efforts cannot fully eliminate the risks associated with the foreign currencies. In addition, some of our borrowings are in foreign currency, giving rise to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates. A material or adverse change in exchange rates could result in significant deterioration of profits or in losses for us. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which may increase costs or have an adverse effect on results of operations. We are subject to extensive national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, air emissions, water discharge, solid and hazardous substances handling and disposal and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently change. We may incur unexpected costs, penalties and other civil and criminal liability if we fail to comply with environmental laws. We 12 The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report Table of Contents also may incur costs or liabilities related to off-site waste disposal or remediating soil or groundwater contamination at our properties. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital expenditures or changes to our operations. Our Portland facility is located adjacent to a portion of the Willamette River that has been designated as a federal “National Priority List” or “Superfund” site due to sediment contamination. We, and more than 60 other parties, have received a “General Notice” of potential liability related to the Portland facility. The letter advised that we may be liable for the cost of investigation and remediation (which liability may be joint and several with other potential responsible parties) as well as natural resource damages resulting from the release of hazardous substances to the site. In addition, we have entered into a Voluntary Clean-Up Agreement with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality in which we agreed to conduct an investigation of whether, and to what extent, past or present operations at our Portland property may have released hazardous substances to the environment. Under this oversight, we also are conducting groundwater remediation relating to a historical spill on our property which occurred prior to our ownership. As a result of the above described matters, we have incurred, and expect to incur in the future, costs associated with an EPA-mandated remedial investigation and the State of Oregon’s mandate to control groundwater discharges. Because this work is still underway, we are unable to determine the amount of our ultimate liability relating to these matters. In addition, we may be required to perform periodic maintenance dredging in order to continue to launch vessels from our launch ways on the river, and the river’s classification as a Superfund site could result in some limitations on future dredging and launch activities. The outcome of these matters could have an adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and on our ability to realize value from a potential sale of the land. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. We offer our customers limited warranties for many of our products. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future, such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our production process or claims for which the cost of repairing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, customers seeking monetary damages, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation. If warranty claims are not recoverable from third-party component manufacturers due to their poor financial condition or other reasons, we may be subject to warranty claims and other risks for using these materials on our railcars. We may be liable for physical damage or product liability claims that exceed our insurance coverage. The nature of our business subjects us to physical damage and product liability claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that carry hazardous or volatile materials. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at commercially reasonable levels compared to similarly-sized heavy equipment manufacturers. However, an unusually large physical damage or product liability claim or a series of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in damage to our reputation. Shortages of skilled labor may adversely impact our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture of railcars. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers often exceeds supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers such as welders may restrict our ability to increase production rates and increase our labor costs. Our level of indebtedness and terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. The majority of our long term debt is non-amortizing with a balloon payment. Although we intend to refinance our debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance such debt upon maturity, or if refinanced, that it will be at favorable rates and terms. If we are not successful in refinancing our balloon debt, we could experience liquidity issues that would have a significant impact on our financial condition. If we are unable to successfully refinance our debt, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate liquidity to fund our ongoing cash needs. In addition, our high level of indebtedness and our financial covenants could limit our ability to borrow additional amounts of money for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. It could also limit our ability to use The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt. The high amount of debt increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures. We depend on a third party to provide most of the labor services for our operations in Sahagun, Mexico, and if such third party fails to provide the labor, it could adversely effect our operations. In Sahagun, Mexico, we depend on a third party to provide us with most of the labor services for our operations under a services agreement. This agreement has a term of four years expiring on December 1, 2008, with two three-year options to renew. All of the labor provided is subject to collective bargaining agreements with the third party, over which we have no control. If the third party fails to provide us with the services required by our agreement for any reason, including labor stoppages or strikes or a sale of facilities owned by the third party, our operations could be adversely effected. In addition, we do not have significant experience in hiring labor in Mexico and, if required to provide our own labor, could face significantly higher labor costs, which also could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may experience interruption of our manufacturing operations in Mexico which would adversely affect our results of operations. In Sahagun, Mexico, we lease our manufacturing facility from a third party. The lease agreement has a term of four years expiring on December 1, 2008, with two three-year options to renew. Upon our exercise of the first option, the landlord may relocate our production line to a different location in their facility which allows us to terminate the exercise of the option. If relocated by the landlord or if we decide to terminate the exercise of the option and find a different location for production, our operations could be adversely effected. We could incur substantial expense and interruption of our manufacturing production if we were to relocate within the facility or to a different location. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable alternative location or enter into a lease for a new location on favorable terms. Our relationships with our alliance partners may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have entered into several agreements with other companies to increase our sourcing alternatives, reduce costs, and pursue opportunities for growth through design improvements. We may seek to expand our relationships or enter into new agreements with other companies. If these relationships are not successful in the future, our manufacturing costs could increase, we could encounter production disruptions, or growth opportunities may not materialize, any of which could adversely affect our business. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that we acquire, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and integrate any businesses that we acquire into our existing business. The integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by causing unforeseen operating difficulties, diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations and requiring significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. In addition, we may not be effective in retaining key employees or customers of the combined businesses. We may face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operational functions of the acquired companies and we also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. We may have difficulty with the start-up of our joint venture railcar manufacturing operation in Mexico which may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. In October 2006 we entered into a joint venture with Grupo Industrial Monclova (GIMSA) to manufacture new railcars at GIMSA’s existing manufacturing facilities located in Frontera, Mexico. Production began in May 2007 at this facility and we are still in the start-up phase. The start-up of this facility may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and 14 The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report Table of Contents unanticipated costs. If this facility is not able to manufacture railcars as efficiently or as effectively as anticipated our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we are not successful in succession planning for our senior management team our business could be adversely impacted. Several key members of our senior management team are at or nearing retirement age. If we are unsuccessful in our succession planning efforts, the continuity of our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Issues may arise on the disposition of our Canadian operations which could increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. In April 2007, a decision was made to permanently close our Canadian railcar manufacturing facility. Production ceased in May 2007 and disposal of the assets is in process. If issues arise that would increase our disposition costs, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to procure insurance on a cost-effective basis in the future. The ability to insure our businesses, facilities and rail assets are important aspects of our ability to manage risk. As there are only limited providers of this insurance to the railcar industry, there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available on a cost-effective basis in the future. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We are a defendant of several pending cases in various jurisdictions. If we are unsuccessful in resolving these claims, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, future claims that may arise relating to any pending or new matters could distract management’s attention from business operations and increase our legal and defense costs, which may also negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our failure to comply with regulations imposed by federal and foreign agencies could negatively affect our financial results. Our railcar operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory and industry authorities and by federal and foreign agencies. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance and related standards; and railroad safety. New regulatory rulings and regulations from these federal or foreign agencies may impact our financial results and the economic value of our assets. In addition, if we fail to comply with the requirements and regulations of these agencies, we could face sanctions and penalties that could negatively affect our financial results. Our implementation of new enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems may result in problems that could negatively impact our business. We are in the process of the design and implementation of ERP and related systems that support substantially all of our operating and financial functions. We may experience problems in connection with such implementations, including compatibility issues, training requirements, higher than expected implementation costs and other integration challenges and delays. A significant implementation problem, if encountered could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. Additionally, a significant problem with the implementation, integration with other systems or ongoing management of ERP and related systems could have an adverse effect on our ability to generate and interpret accurate management and financial reports and other information on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial reporting system and internal controls and adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Our governing documents contain some provisions that may prevent or make more difficult an attempt to acquire us. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as currently in effect, contain some provisions that may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, including: • a classified board of directors, with each class containing as nearly as possible one-third of the total number of members of the board of directors and the members of each class serving for staggered three-year terms; • a vote of at least 55% of our voting securities to amend some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation; The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents • no less than 120 days advance notice with respect to nominations of directors or other matters to be voted on by shareholders other than by or at the direction of the board of directors; • removal of directors only with cause; and • the calling of special meetings of stockholders only by the president, a majority of the board of directors or the holders of not less than 25% of all votes entitled to be cast on the matters to be considered at such meeting. We also maintain a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which each stockholder has received a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right per share of common stock owned. The stockholder rights plan and the other provisions discussed above may have anti-takeover effects because they may delay, defer or prevent an unsolicited acquisition proposal that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. The Oregon Control Share Act and business combination law may limit parties who acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These acts may lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a shareholder to vote their shares to elect the majority of our Board and change management. Item 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 16 The Greenbrier Companies 2007 Annual Report Table of Contents 