Item 1A. Risk Factors As used in this section, references to “we” or “us” or “our” refer to the Company, the Operating Partnership, and HPRS, taken as a whole. Our business is subject to uncertainties and risks. Please carefully consider the risk factors described below, which apply to Home Properties, the Operating Partnership, and HPRS, in addition to other risks set forth in this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or prospects. The risk factors we describe contain or refer to certain forward-looking statements. You should review the explanation of the limitations of forward-looking statements contained in the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 59 of this Form 10-K. Real Estate Investment Risks We are subject to risks that are part of owning residential real estate. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. If our communities do not generate revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. A multifamily apartment community’s revenues and value may be adversely affected by general economic conditions (including unemployment and erosion in the credit quality of the renter pool); local and regional economic conditions (including population shifts); local and regional real estate considerations (such as oversupply of or reduced demand for apartments); changes in home ownership or condominium affordability; the perception by prospective residents of the convenience and attractiveness of the communities or neighborhoods in which they are located and the quality of local schools and other amenities; and increased operating costs (including real estate taxes and utilities). Certain significant fixed expenses are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community. We depend on rental income for cash flow to pay expenses and make distributions. We are dependent on rental income from our multifamily properties to pay operating expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, and in order to generate cash to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to attract and retain residents or if our residents are unable, due to an adverse change in the economic condition of the region or otherwise, to pay their rental obligations, our financial results and our ability to make expected distributions will be adversely affected. In addition, the weather and other factors outside of our control can result in an increase in the operating expenses for which we are responsible. An increase in operating expenses, including real estate taxes, would negatively affect our financial results. Unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other unanticipated or increased operating expenses cannot always be passed through to residents in the form of higher rents and may adversely affect financial results and our ability to make expected distributions. Attractive acquisitions may not be available and acquisitions we may be able to make may fail to meet expectations. We plan to continue to selectively acquire apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other REITs and other well-capitalized private investors will compete with us to acquire multifamily properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type we would likely pursue and adversely affect our growth, profitability and current strategy of targeting a similar range of acquisitions and dispositions. If we are able to make acquisitions, there are risks that those acquisitions will perform less favorably than we expect. Our estimates of future income, expenses and the costs of improvements or redevelopment that are necessary to allow us to operate an acquired property as originally intended may prove to be inaccurate. Other acquisition risks include environmental issues, tax reassessments, structural issues, competition, economic submarket changes and employment variables. 13 Table of Contents Real Estate Investment Risks (continued) Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and we may not be able to respond to changing conditions quickly. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we have limited ability to adjust our portfolio quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the prohibition in the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) on REITs holding property for sale and related regulations may affect our ability to sell properties without adversely affecting distributions to stockholders. A number of our properties were acquired using UPREIT Units and four of those properties are still subject to certain agreements which may restrict our ability to sell such properties in transactions that would create current taxable income to the former owners. Possible difficulties in selling apartment communities could limit our flexibility. We have identified certain of our communities that we intend to sell in 2015. We may encounter difficulty in finding buyers in a timely manner who are willing to pay acceptable prices for these communities. If we are unable to sell apartment communities or if we can only sell them at prices lower than are expected, then we may have to take on additional leverage in order to provide adequate capital to execute our strategies. Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rents. Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment units and to increase or maintain rental rates. The recent challenges in the credit and housing markets have increased single-family housing inventory that may compete with our properties. Repositioning and development risks could affect our profitability. A key component of our strategy is to acquire properties and to reposition them for long-term growth. In addition, while we have made a decision to no longer include development of new properties as a strategy, we have one new development property that is in the process of being completed and another new development property that is substantially completed but has not achieved full lease up. Repositioning activities may require various governmental and other approvals, which have no assurance of being received. Our repositioning and limited remaining development activities generally entail certain risks, including the following: · funds may be expended and management’s time devoted to projects that may not be completed due to a variety of factors, including without limitation, the inability to obtain necessary zoning or other approvals; · construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the economic return on a repositioned or developed property less than anticipated; · occupancy rates and rents at a completed development project or at a repositioned property may be less than anticipated; and · the operating expenses may be higher than anticipated. If any of these risks materialized, the effect may negatively impact our financial results and reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Further, the repositioning and development of properties is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. 14 Table of Contents Real Estate Investment Risks (continued) Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market conditions. Virtually all of the leases for our properties are short-term leases (generally, one year or less). Typically, our residents can leave after the end of a one-year lease term. As a result, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market conditions more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company carries commercial general liability, property and business interruption insurance with respect to our properties on terms we consider commercially reasonable. There are however certain types of extraordinary losses, such as losses for certain natural catastrophes and relating to environmental contamination, that are not insured, in full or part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If an uninsured loss occurred, we could incur significant expense. As a result of a catastrophic uninsured event impacting an entire property, we could lose our investment in and cash flow from, the affected property, and could be required to repay any indebtedness secured by that property and related taxes and other charges. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and/or settlement with or court ordered damages to, that third party. Insurance costs and policy deductibles expose us to unpredictable expenses which may be material. As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s property insurance policies provide for a per occurrence deductible of $50,000 until exhaustion of $2.25 million annual aggregate self-insured retention, and then $100,000 per occurrence deductible. Earthquake, named windstorm, and flood losses are subject to higher deductibles but are not subject to the aggregate self-insured retention. Should a covered claim exceed these deductibles and self-insured retention, it would be 100% covered by insurance. The Company’s general liability policies provide for a self-insured retention of $100,000 per occurrence and its workers’ compensation policies contains a $250,000 per claim deductible. These large deductible and self-insured retention amounts expose the Company to greater potential uninsured losses. Management believes that this exposure is justified by savings in insurance premium amounts and, in some cases, was necessary for the Company to secure coverage. However, the potential impact of poor claims experience could cause a significant increase in insurance premiums and deductibles or a decrease in the availability of coverage, either or which could expose the Company to even greater uninsured losses. The Company also maintains a $50 million stand-alone terrorism policy with a $25,000 per occurrence deductible in regard to property damage and business interruption combined. The Company is subject to increased exposure to economic and other competitive factors due to concentration of its Properties in certain markets. At December 31, 2014, approximately 26.6%, 24.9%, 14.0%, 8.5% and 8.5% (on an apartment unit basis) of the Company’s Properties are located in the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Philadelphia, Long Island and Northern New Jersey markets, respectively. The Company’s current strategy is to reduce its concentration in the Washington, D.C. market to approximately 25%. If any one or more of such core markets is adversely affected by local or regional deteriorating economic conditions or other factors, the adverse impact on our results of operations could be greater than if our portfolio was more geographically diverse. 15 Table of Contents Real Estate Investment Risks (continued) Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. We must operate our properties in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability. Compliance with changes in: (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions; (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws; or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may result in lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures. We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement weather. In every market we are exposed to risks associated with inclement weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice. In addition, in all of our markets, we have exposure to severe storms which also could increase the need for maintenance and repair of our communities. We may incur increased costs resulting from the climate change regulations and the occurrence of climate change could adversely affect our financial results. Various treaties, laws and regulations result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our properties and may have been adopted relating to climate change. The Company believes these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy and waste removal costs at our properties to increase. We do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations. Increased costs relating to energy either would be the responsibility of our residents directly or in large part may be passed through by us to our residents through the utility recovery programs. We may be able to pass increased waste removal costs on to our residents directly or in the form of increased rental rates. If this is not possible, it is still not expected that these additional costs would affect the Company’s financial performance in any material way. To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature, including destruction of our properties, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance that could adversely affect our financial results and reputation. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances at our properties and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. The operation of our communities is subject to regulations and permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these laws. 16 Table of Contents Real Estate Investment Risks (continued) We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance that could adversely affect our financial results and reputation (continued). Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. ACMs are present at some of our communities. We implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of ACMs at our communities. We are aware that some of our communities have or may have lead paint and have implemented an operations and maintenance program at each of those communities to contain, remove or test for lead paint to limit the exposure of our residents. At some of our properties, we are required by federal law to provide lead-based paint disclosures to our residents. Failure to comply with the federal notification requirement can result in a penalty. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead-based paint at our communities or the failure to provide disclosures. Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions. This has resulted in an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties. Insurance companies have reacted by excluding mold-related claims from existing policies and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates. We have adopted programs designed to minimize any impact mold might have on our residents and our properties. However, if mold should become an issue in the future, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. All of our communities have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some of our properties, have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operation. However, there is no assurance that Phase I assessments would reveal all environmental liabilities. In addition, environmental conditions not known to the Company may exist now or in the future which could result in liability to the Company for remediation or fines or to third parties for property or personal injury damages, either under existing laws and regulations or future changes to such requirements. On a limited basis, we previously were involved in managing, leasing and operating various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. We are not aware of any material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed by us for such third parties. Financing Risks We are subject to general risks related to debt. We are subject to the customary risks associated with debt financing. For example, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet its debt service obligations, the property could be foreclosed upon. This could adversely affect our cash flow and, consequently, the amount available for distributions to stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Financing Risks (continued) We may not be able to obtain refinancing at favorable rates. Because a significant amount of our financing is not fully self-amortizing, we anticipate that only a portion of the principal of our indebtedness will be repaid prior to maturity. Accordingly, we will need to refinance debt and there is a risk that we will not be successful in refinancing existing indebtedness or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing indebtedness. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our operating cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. As a result, certain of our other debt may cross default, we may be forced to postpone capital expenditures necessary for the maintenance of our properties, we may have to dispose of one or more properties on terms that would otherwise be unacceptable to us or we may be forced to allow the mortgage holder to foreclose on a property. Foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financing may not be available and issuing equity could dilute our stockholders’ interests. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common and preferred equity. Debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, or on favorable terms or at all. If we issue additional equity securities instead of incurring debt, the interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted. Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain debt financing and impact our acquisitions and dispositions. In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts, sources and cost of capital available to us may be adversely affected. We primarily use external financing to fund acquisitions, our re-positioning program and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources of external financing are not available to us on cost effective terms, we could be forced to limit our planned activity and/or take other actions to fund our business activities and repayment of debt such as selling assets, reducing our cash dividend or paying out less than 100% of our taxable income. To the extent that we are able and/or choose to access capital at a higher cost than we have experienced in recent years (reflected in higher interest rates for debt financing or a lower stock price for equity financing) our earnings per share and cash flows could be adversely affected. Uncertainty in the credit markets also could negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and make it more difficult or not possible for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Potential continued disruptions in the financial markets could also have other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy generally and may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly and/or to decline. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets. There are three rating agencies that have assigned an issuer credit rating to the Company. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings, among other factors. If market conditions change, we may not be able to maintain our current ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets. 18 Table of Contents Financing Risks (continued) Potential reduction or elimination of the role that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the multifamily financing sector may negatively impact the multifamily sector and our ability to obtain financing. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “GSEs”) are a major source of financing for secured multifamily real estate. We have used the GSEs for a portion of our financing needs. There is significant uncertainty surrounding the future of the GSEs. A final decision by the government to eliminate the GSEs or to change their mandate may adversely affect interest rates and capital availability and the value of multifamily communities. The Company in part relies on its line of credit to meet its short-term liquidity requirements. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had an unsecured line of credit agreement of $450 million with an initial maturity date of August 18, 2017, and a one-year extension, at the Company’s option. The Company had $269 million outstanding under the credit facility on December 31, 2014. We believe that the lenders under our line of credit will fulfill their obligations thereunder, but if economic conditions deteriorate or the financial condition of our lenders is otherwise negatively affected, there can be no assurance that the ability of those lenders to fulfill their obligations would not be adversely affected. The credit agreement relating to the line of credit requires the Company to maintain certain financial covenants, ratios and measurements. Maintaining compliance with these covenants could limit our flexibility. In addition, a default in these requirements, if uncured, could result in a termination of the line of credit and a requirement that we repay outstanding amounts, which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Failure to comply with the financial covenants relating to our unsecured debt could result in a default and early repayment of the loans. In addition to the line of credit, as of December 31, 2014, the Company had $550 million of unsecured debt outstanding. These loans require the Company to maintain some of the same covenants, ratios and measurements as under the line of credit. A default in any of these requirements could result in a default of these unsecured loans and a requirement that the loan be repaid early. This could adversely affect our liquidity and result in increased financing costs. Rising interest rates could adversely affect operations and cash flow. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 84% of our debt was at fixed rates. This limits our exposure to changes in interest rates. Prolonged interest rate increases, however, could negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions, dispose of properties at favorable prices, or reposition properties and refinance existing borrowings at acceptable rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and rate swap agreements. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements and that these arrangements may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a negative impact on our financial performance and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. 19 Table of Contents Financing Risks (continued) There is no legal limit on the amount of debt we can incur. The Board has adopted a policy of limiting our indebtedness to approximately 55% of our total market capitalization (with the equity component of total market capitalization based on the per share NAV presented to our Board at its most recent Board meeting), but our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, the Board could alter or eliminate its current policy on borrowing. If this policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service costs that could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and increase the risk of default on our indebtedness. Our NAV fluctuates based on a number of factors. Our line of credit agreement limits the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Other Risks The loss of members of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s performance. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. Our executive officers make important capital allocation and other significant decisions or recommendations to our Board of Directors. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of several of our key personnel could adversely affect the Company. Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our residents and employees. In addition, we engage third party service providers that may have access to such personal information in connection with providing necessary information technology and security and other business services to us. We have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically test and verify the proper and secure operation of these measures. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could result in a wide range of potentially serious harm to our business operations and financial prospects, including (among others) disruption of our business and operations, disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information (including personal information of our residents and/or employees), damage to our reputation, and/or potentially significant legal and/or financial liabilities. Emerging technologies, if not adopted properly, and internet viruses could negatively impact our business. Despite a robust governance structure developed around the use of technology, adoption of emerging technologies in an improper or inefficient manner might place Company data, systems and productivity at risk, as well as potentially introduce legal and regulatory compliance issues. This could be related to new technology that is configured or deployed incorrectly or is not managed appropriately (whether by us or by a vendor). In addition, the Company could suffer internet interruptions due to malicious software or viruses. This could temporarily negatively affect various operations and productivity. 20 Table of Contents Other Risks (continued) The ability of our stockholders to effect a change of control is limited by certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation as well as by Maryland law and our executive retention plan. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the “Articles of Incorporation”), authorize the Board to issue up to a total of 160 million shares of common stock, 10 million shares of excess stock and 10 million shares of preferred stock and to establish the rights and preferences of any shares issued. Further, under the Articles of Incorporation, the stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (including certain entities) at any time during the last half of its taxable year. We have limited ownership of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock by any single stockholder to 8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding shares. The percentage ownership limit described above, the issuance of preferred stock in the future and the absence of cumulative voting rights could have the effect of: (i) delaying or preventing a change of control even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ interest; (ii) deterring tender offers for our common stock that may be beneficial to the stockholders; or (iii) limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block of our common stock in excess of the percentage ownership limit or otherwise to effect a change of control. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for re-election annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in control. Also, to assure that our management has appropriate incentives to focus on our business and properties in the face of a change of control situation, we have adopted an executive retention plan which provides some key employees with salary, bonus and some benefits continuation in the event of a change of control. The future sale of shares under our At-The-Market offering may negatively impact our stock price. Beginning in 2009, the Company made the necessary filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission to institute the sale of its common shares from time to time in “at the market offerings” or negotiated transactions (the “ATM”). As of December 31, 2014, approximately 2.0 million shares remain available under the current filings relating to the ATM. If authorized by its Board of Directors, the Company, in the future could affect additional filings to register additional common shares for sale under the ATM. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Federal Income Tax Risks There is no assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders as long as it distributes currently at least 90% of its taxable income (excluding net capital gains). No assurance can be provided, however, that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. 21 Table of Contents Federal Income Tax Risks (continued) We are required to make certain distributions to qualify as a REIT, and there is no assurance that we will have the funds necessary to make the distributions. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we currently are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains). In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income for that year, and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from the Operating Partnership. However, differences in timing between taxable income and cash available for distribution could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable us to meet the 90% distribution requirement (and, therefore, to maintain our REIT qualification) and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. The Operating Partnership is required to pay (or reimburse us, as its general partner, for) certain taxes and other liabilities and expenses that we incur, including any taxes that we must pay in the event we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, because we are unable to retain earnings (resulting from REIT distribution requirements), we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. There can be no assurance that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would be available to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse consequences. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal and state income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification is lost. The additional tax burden on us would significantly reduce the cash available for distribution by us to our stockholders. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could reduce materially the value of our common stock and would cause all our distributions to be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (although, subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction with respect to these distributions). The Operating Partnership intends to qualify as a partnership but there is no guarantee that it will qualify. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were to be successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an entity that is taxable as a corporation, we would cease to qualify as a REIT because the value of our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership would exceed 5% of our assets and because we would be considered to hold more than 10% of the voting securities of another corporation. Also, the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for distribution to our limited partners and stockholders. Finally, the classification of the Operating Partnership as a corporation would cause its limited partners to recognize gain (upon the event that causes the Operating Partnership to be classified as a corporation) at least equal to their “negative capital accounts” (and possibly more, depending upon the circumstances). 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 