Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect our customers, in particular those in the nonresidential construction industry and the education sector, which may cause the demand for our products and services to decline and therefore harm our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are derived from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, such as the nonresidential construction industry. In addition, because we conduct our operations in a variety of markets, we are subject to economic conditions in each of these markets. During 2005, we experienced improvement in the marketplace; however, prior to 2005, our business was adversely impacted by overall soft economic conditions, which affected our construction customers primarily, and state budget issues in certain parts of the country that affected our education customers. As a result of the economic downturn, we incurred a net loss of approximately $3.4 million in 2004. Although our product, customer, industry and geographic diversity limits our exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where we have operations, including any downturns in the construction industry, which constituted approximately 34% of our revenues in 2006, could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, at the present time we are unable to predict what long-term effect, if any, recent political events, including those relating to, or arising out of, the growing threat of terrorism, and their attendant consequences will have on our business. Any of the foregoing economic or political events could 14 negatively affect our industry or industries in which our customers operate, which may cause the demand for our products and services to decline and therefore harm our revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in the modular and portable space industry, especially from our primary national competitor, which has greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers and our revenues and profitability could decline. Although our competition varies significantly by market, the modular space industry, in general, is highly competitive. We compete primarily in terms of product availability, customer service and price. We believe that our reputation for customer service and our ability to offer a wide selection of units suitable for various uses at competitive prices allows us to compete effectively. However, our primary national competitor, GE Modular Space, is less leveraged, has greater market share or product availability in some markets, and has greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose customers which could reduce our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to remarket our units effectively should a significant number of our lease units be returned during any short period of time, which could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to continue expanding our fleet. Our typical lease terms, which include contractual provisions requiring customers to retain units on lease for, on average, 16 months, actually have an average lease duration of approximately 28 months. Because our customers generally rent our units for periods longer than the contractual lease terms, 59% of our leases are on a month-to-month basis as of December 31, 2006. In addition, 22% of our leases have contractual lease terms expiring within six months as of December 31, 2006. These aspects of our leasing business have remained generally consistent over the last several years. Should a significant number of our leased units be returned during any short period of time, a large supply of units would need to be remarketed. Our failure to effectively remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to continue expanding our fleet. A significant reduction of funding to public schools or contraction of class size reduction programs could cause the demand for our modular classroom units to decline, which, as a result, may reduce our revenues and profitability. We generated 26% of our revenues in 2006 from our education customers, which include public school facilities. Funding for public school facilities is derived from a variety of sources including, among other things, various taxes levied to support school operating budgets. Any material interruption of these sources or a lack of fiscal funding could result in a significant reduction of funding to public schools, which may negatively impact the budget of public schools and cause the demand for our modular classroom units to decline. In addition, any contraction or elimination of class size reduction programs could cause the demand for our modular classrooms to decline. Any decline in demand for our modular classrooms may reduce our revenue and profitability. Certain related parties of The Cypress Group L.L.C. and Keystone Group, L.P. exercise significant influence over us. Our large shareholders, which include related parties of The Cypress Group L.L.C. and Keystone Group, L.P. beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2007. Accordingly, these parties exercise significant influence over all matters requiring a stockholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control 15 of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. Any failure of our management information systems could disrupt our business and result in decreased rental or sale revenues and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. We depend on our management information systems to actively manage our lease fleet, control new unit capital spending and provide fleet information, including leasing history, condition, and availability of our units. These functions enhance our ability to optimize fleet utilization, rentability and redeployment. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in, among other things, decreased rental or sales and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Federal and state regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers, our profitability and operating cash flows could be negatively impacted. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, transportation, health and safety laws and regulations in connection with our operations. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations. In addition, these laws and regulations could change in a manner that materially and adversely affects our ability to conduct our business. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs. If we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers, our profitability and operating cash flows could be negatively impacted. See “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.” Our sale transactions constitute a significant portion of our revenues. The completion of these sale transactions are subject to a number of factors beyond our control. Failure to close our sale transactions as projected could cause our actual revenues or cash flow for a particular quarter or longer period to differ from forecasted estimates. Sales of new modular space and portable storage units and rental equipment to customers in 2006, excluding delivery, site work and other ancillary sales revenue, approximated 28% of our total revenue. The completion of sale transactions is subject to certain factors that are beyond our control, including permit requirements and weather conditions. Accordingly, the actual timing of the completion of these transactions may be different from their forecasted schedules. As a result, our actual revenues and cash flow in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time may not consistently correlate to our forecasted estimates. In addition, if we do not accurately forecast our activity, we may improperly plan or budget, which could cause us to violate our debt covenants and harm our liquidity. As a result, we may not be able to take advantage of business and growth opportunities otherwise available to us. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impair our growth and profitability of our business. An important element of our growth strategy is to continue to seek additional businesses to acquire in order to add new customers within our existing markets and expand into new markets. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices, upon advantageous terms and conditions and upon successful integration of the acquired businesses. However, future acquisitions may not be available at advantageous prices or upon favorable terms and conditions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations, that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, that the acquired businesses may not be integrated 16 successfully and that international acquisitions may strain our management resources. Future acquisitions and any necessary related financings also may involve significant transaction-related expenses. If we are unable to complete attractive acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, the growth and profitability of our business would be adversely impacted. European expansion may divert our resources from other aspects of our business, cause us to incur additional debt and require us to comply with different regulations. Failure to manage these economic and regulatory risks may adversely affect our growth in Europe and lead to increased costs. In 2006, we acquired Wiron, our subsidiary located in Spain. Continued expansion into the European market may require us to make substantial investments, which would divert resources from other aspects of our business. We may also be required to raise additional debt or equity capital to fund our expansion in Europe. In addition, we may incur difficulties in staffing and managing our European operations, and face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exposure to additional regulatory requirements, including certain trade barriers, changes in political and economic conditions, and exposure to additional and potentially adverse tax regimes. Our success in Europe will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our growth in Europe and lead to increased administrative costs. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our international sales. Our revenue from international operations can be denominated in or significantly influenced by the currency and general economic climate of the country in which we make sales. A decrease in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we continue to expand our international operations, exposure to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. We may continue our use of hedging instruments in the future to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from transactions denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to do this successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are a holding company whose only material asset is the capital stock of Scotsman and to a lesser extent, our European and Mexican subsidiaries. We may not have sufficient cash to meet our obligations if Scotsman, our only material source of cash, is not able to generate sufficient earnings or cash flow to pay dividends to us or if Scotsman is prohibited by its debt agreements from paying dividends to us. We are a holding company with no material business operations. Our most significant asset is the capital stock of Scotsman and to a lesser extent our European and Mexican subsidiaries. We conduct virtually all of our business operations through Scotsman and its European and Mexican subsidiaries. Accordingly, our only material sources of cash are dividends or other distributions or payments that are derived from earnings and cash flow generated by these entities. These entities may not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions or make payments in the future. In addition, the terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 8.5% Notes due 2015 (the 8.5% Notes) limit such payments to us. As a result, we may not have sufficient cash to meet our obligations, which could harm our business. Failure to retain key personnel could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy and lead to a loss of customers. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. Many of our key executives, including our President and Chief Executive 17 Officer, Mr. Gerard Holthaus, and the executive vice president and nine vice presidents who lead our branch operations, have over 10 years of experience with our company. These officers have knowledge and an understanding of our company and industry that cannot be readily duplicated. There are employment agreements with Gerard Holthaus, Robert Singer, Joseph Donegan, William LeBuhn and John Ross. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our revenues, or lead to employee morale problems. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carryforwards and, as a result, lose our future tax savings, which could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Net operating losses (“NOL’s”) may be carried forward to offset U.S. federal, U.S. state, and foreign taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. As of December 31, 2006, we had NOL’s of approximately $221 million. Based on current corporate income tax rates, our NOL’s could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, if we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL’s or any deductions or losses included in such calculation, which could reduce our tax benefit. Provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may also limit our ability to carry forward our U.S. NOL’s to offset taxable income in future years. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill would hurt our operating results and reduce our net worth. We have significant intangible assets related to goodwill, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. As of December 31, 2006, we had $182.8 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented 11.5% of our total assets. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under the U.S. accounting standards and instead are required to review goodwill at least annually for impairment. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. We determined that goodwill was not impaired for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off in future periods of all or a part of our goodwill would hurt our operating results and net worth. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Goodwill Impairment.” Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our profitability. We purchase raw materials, including lumber, siding and roofing and other products to perform periodic refurbishments to maintain physical conditions of our units. We also maintain a truck fleet to deliver units to and return units from our customers. During periods of rising prices for raw materials or oil, and in particular, when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may incur significant increases in our operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers in a timely manner, which could reduce our profitability. Failure by third parties to manufacture our products timely or properly may harm our reputation and financial condition. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products even though we are able to purchase products from a variety of third-party suppliers. Generally, we do not have any long term purchase contracts with any third-party supplier. If these third parties do not timely complete our orders, or do not 18 properly manufacture our products, our reputation and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate arrangements with these third parties on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial debt could harm our financial health and may otherwise restrict our activities. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $916.4 million of indebtedness. See Note 6 of the Notes to Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it: · makes our company more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limits our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; · requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; · limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and · places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing our 8.5% Notes and the terms of our Amended and Restated Credit Facility permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional debt. As of December 31, 2006, we would be permitted to borrow an additional $205.5 million of indebtedness under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility. Accordingly, this additional indebtedness could further exacerbate all the risks described above. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is subject to variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our substantial indebtedness exposes us to interest rate increases because a substantial portion of our indebtedness is at variable rates. The interest rates under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility will be reset at varying periods. These periodic adjustments could expose our operating results and cash flows to periodic fluctuations. Our annual debt service obligations will increase by $4.6 million per year for each 1 percentage point increase in the average interest rate we pay, based on the balance of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2006. We may use interest rate hedging arrangements and swap agreements to limit our exposure to interest rate volatility based upon management’s judgment. If we enter into these arrangements, we will incur certain risks, including that our hedging or swap transactions might not achieve the desired effect in eliminating the impact of interest rate fluctuations, or that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. As a result, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. This could reduce our net income and require us to modify our hedging strategy. 19 The indenture governing the 8.5% Notes and the terms of our Amended and Restated Credit Facility contain various covenants which limit the discretion of our management in operating our business and could prevent us from engaging in some beneficial activities. The indenture governing the 8.5% Notes and the terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility contain various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements include covenants relating to limitations on: · dividends on, and redemptions and repurchases of, capital stock, · liens and sale-leaseback transactions, · loans and investments, · debt and hedging arrangements, · mergers, acquisitions and asset sales, · transactions with affiliates, and · changes in business activities conducted by us and our subsidiaries. In addition, our Amended and Restated Credit Facility requires us, under certain circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios. It also limits our ability to make capital expenditures. See Note 6 of the Notes to Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to comply with the restrictions of the indenture governing the 8.5% Notes or the terms of our Amended and Restated Credit Facility or any other subsequent financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our debt service requires a significant amount of cash. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet both our debt obligations and other requirements or obligations. This could lead us to take actions, such as reducing capital expenditures or other investments or asset sales. These actions may limit our flexibility to grow our business and to take advantage of business opportunities. To service our debt, we require a significant amount of cash. Our debt service requirements for the year ending December 31, 2007 are approximately $95.7 million, based on the outstanding debt balance and effective interest rates as of December 31, 2006. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payment of our debt in the future. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions, and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · economic and competitive conditions affecting the modular and portable space industry; · operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures we may experience; and · a decline in the resale value of our units. At December 31, 2006, the aggregate amount of indebtedness of our company approximated $916.4 million. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital investments, sell material assets or operations, obtain 20 additional capital or restructure our debt. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, the terms of such transaction may not be satisfactory and such transaction may not be completed in a timely manner. In addition, these actions may limit our flexibility to grow our business and to take advantage of business opportunities. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 