Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following factors and other considerations should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Changes in Interest Rates May Significantly Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Like most financial institutions, our results of operations depend to a large degree on our net interest income. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. As a general matter, we seek to manage our business to limit our overall exposure to interest rate fluctuations. However, fluctuations in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in a rising interest rate environment, a borrower’s ability to repay adjustable rate mortgages can be negatively affected as payments increase at repricing dates. 48 Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. In a declining interest rate environment, the number of loan prepayments and loan refinancing may increase, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government agency and corporate securities may also adversely affect yield in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayments and calls may adversely affect the yield of our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed and other securities as we reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. However, we typically receive additional loan fees when existing loans are refinanced, which partially offset the reduced yield on our loan portfolio resulting from prepayments. In periods of low interest rates, our level of core deposits also may decline if depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investments not offered by us, which in turn may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent alternative funding sources are utilized. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to extend the average lives of lower yielding fixed rate mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, which could adversely affect net interest income. In addition, depositors tend to open longer term, higher costing certificate of deposit accounts which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Additionally, adjustable rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount the interest rate can increase or decrease at repricing dates. Significant increases in prevailing interest rates may significantly affect demand for loans and the value of bank collateral. See “— Local Economic Conditions.” Our Lending Activities Involve Risks that May Be Exacerbated Depending on the Mix of Loan Types At December 31, 2011, our gross loan portfolio was $3,214.0 million, of which 91% was mortgage loans secured by real estate. The majority of these real estate loans were secured by multi-family residential property ($1,391.2 million), commercial real estate ($580.8 million) and one-to-four family mixed-use property ($693.9 million), which combined represent 83% of our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York City metropolitan area. Multi-family residential, one-to-four family mixed-use property, and commercial real estate mortgage loans, and construction loans, are generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans and typically involve higher principal amounts per loan. Multi-family residential, one-to-four family mixed-use property and commercial real estate mortgage loans are typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related property, which is usually owned by a legal entity with the property being the entity’s only asset. If the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If the borrower defaults, our only remedy may be to foreclose on the property, for which the market value may be less than the balance due on the related mortgage loan. We attempt to mitigate this risk by generally requiring a loan-to-value ratio of no more than 75% at a time the loan is originated. Repayment of construction loans is contingent upon the successful completion and operation of the project. The repayment of commercial business loans (the increased origination of which is part of management’s strategy), is contingent on the successful operation of the related business. Changes in local economic conditions and government regulations, which are outside the control of the borrower or lender, also could affect the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of the affected properties. We continually review the composition of our mortgage loan portfolio to manage the risk in the portfolio. In addition, from time to time, we have originated one-to-four family residential mortgage loans without verifying the borrower’s level of income. These loans involve a higher degree of risk as compared to our other fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. These risks are mitigated by our policy to generally limit the amount of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans to 80% of the appraised value or sale price, whichever is less, as well as charging a higher interest rate than when the borrower’s income is verified. At December 31, 2011, we had $25.9 million outstanding of one-to-four family residential properties originated to individuals based on stated income and verifiable assets, and $58.5 million advanced on home equity lines of credit for which we did not verify the borrowers income. The total loans for which we did not verify the borrower’s income at December 31, 2011 was $84.4 million, or 2.6% of gross loans. These types of loans are generally referred to as “Alt A” loans since the borrower’s income was not verified. These loans are not as readily saleable in the secondary market as our other fully underwritten loans, either as whole loans or when pooled or securitized. We no longer originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans or home equity lines of credit to individuals without verifying their income. We have not originated, nor do we hold in portfolio, any subprime loans. Even in stable economic times, higher default rates may be expected for Alt A and similar loans. Although we attempted to incorporate the higher default rates associated with these loans into our pricing models, there can be no assurance that the premiums earned and the associated investment income will prove adequate to compensate for future losses from these loans. Worsening economic conditions, rising unemployment rates and/or other regional real estate price declines could even more significantly increase the default risks associated with these loans. In addition, these same negative economic and market conditions could also significantly increase the default risk on loans for which we did not assume higher default and claim rates. 49 In assessing our future earnings prospects, investors should consider, among other things, our level of origination of one-to-four family residential, multi-family residential, commercial real estate and one-to-four family mixed-use property mortgage loans, and commercial business and construction loans, and the greater risks associated with such loans. See “Business — Lending Activities” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. Our Ability to Obtain Brokered Certificates of Deposit and Brokered Money Market Accounts as an Additional Funding Source Could be Limited We utilize brokered certificates of deposit as an additional funding source and to assist in the management of our interest rate risk. The Savings Bank had $444.8 million, or 14.1% of total deposits, and $513.6 million, or 16.1% of total deposits, in brokered deposit accounts at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have obtained brokered certificates of deposit when the interest rate on these deposits is below the prevailing interest rate for non-brokered certificates of deposit with similar maturities in our market, or when obtaining them allowed us to extend the maturities of our deposits at favorable rates compared to borrowing funds with similar maturities, when we are seeking to extend the maturities of our funding to assist in the management of our interest rate risk. Brokered certificates of deposit provide a large deposit for us at a lower operating cost as compared to non-brokered certificates of deposit since we only have one account to maintain versus several accounts with multiple interest and maturity checks. Unlike non-brokered certificates of deposit where the deposit amount can be withdrawn with a penalty for any reason, including increasing interest rates, a brokered certificate of deposit can only be withdrawn in the event of the death or court declared mental incompetence of the depositor. This allows us to better manage the maturity of our deposits and our interest rate risk. We also utilize brokers to obtain money market account deposits. The rate we pay on brokered money market accounts is the same or below the rate we pay on non-brokered money market accounts, and the rate is agreed to in a contract between the Savings Bank and the broker. These accounts are similar to brokered certificates of deposit accounts in that we only maintain one account for the total deposit per broker, with the broker maintaining the detailed records of each depositor. The Savings Bank did not hold any brokered money market accounts at December 31, 2011. The Savings Bank held $35.1 million in brokered money market accounts at December 31, 2010. The FDIC has promulgated regulations implementing limitations on brokered deposits. Under the regulations, well-capitalized institutions, such as the Savings Bank, are not subject to brokered deposit limitations, while adequately capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to restrictions on the interest rate that can be paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. Pursuant to the regulation, the Savings Bank, as a well-capitalized institution, may accept brokered deposits. Should our capital ratios decline, this could limit our ability to replace brokered deposits when they mature. The maturity of brokered certificates of deposit could result in a significant funding source maturing at one time. Should this occur, it might be difficult to replace the maturing certificates with new brokered certificates of deposit. We have used brokers to obtain these deposits which results in depositors with whom we have no other relationships since these depositors are outside of our market, and there may not be a sufficient source of new brokered certificates of deposit at the time of maturity. In addition, upon maturity, brokers could require us to offer some of the highest interest rates in the country to retain these deposits, which would negatively impact our earnings. The Savings Bank mitigates this risk by obtaining brokered certificates of deposit with various maturities ranging up to five years, and attempts to avoid having a significant amount maturing in any one year. The Markets in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive We face intense and increasing competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors to varying degrees. Particularly intense competition exists for deposits and in all of the lending activities we emphasize. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, other savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Management anticipates that competition for mortgage loans will continue to increase in the future. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from other savings banks, commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. Consolidation in the banking industry and the lifting of interstate banking and branching restrictions have made it more difficult for smaller, community-oriented banks, such as us, to compete effectively with large, national, regional and super-regional banking institutions. We launched an internet branch, “iGObanking.com®” a division of the Savings Bank, to provide us with access to consumers in markets outside our geographic locations. The internet banking arena also has many larger financial institutions which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than we do. 50 Notwithstanding the intense competition, we have been successful in increasing our loan portfolios and deposit base. However, no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to increase our loan portfolios and deposit base, as contemplated by management’s current business strategy. Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in National and/or Local Economic Conditions Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. The national and our local economies were generally considered to be in a recession from December 2007 through the middle of 2009. This resulted in increased unemployment and declining property values, although the property value declines in the New York City metropolitan area have not been as great as many other areas of the country. While the national and local economies showed signs of improvement since the second half of 2009, unemployment has remained at elevated levels. The housing market in the United States continued to see a significant slowdown during 2009, and foreclosures of single family homes rose to levels not seen in the prior five years. The downturn in the housing market continued in 2010, although the downturn has slowed. These economic conditions can result in borrowers defaulting on their loans, or withdrawing their funds on deposit at the Banks to meet their financial obligations. While we have seen an increase in deposits, we have also seen a significant increase in delinquent loans, resulting in an increase in our provision for loan losses. This increase in delinquent loans primarily consists of mortgage loans collateralized by residential income producing properties that are located in the New York City metropolitan market. Given New York City’s low vacancy rates, the properties have retained their value and have provided us with low loss content in our non-performing loans. We cannot predict the effect of these economic conditions on our financial condition or operating results. A decline in the local or national economy or the New York City metropolitan area real estate market could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including through decreased demand for loans or increased competition for good loans, increased non-performing loans and loan losses and resulting additional provisions for loan losses and for losses on real estate owned. Although management believes that the current allowance for loan losses is adequate in light of current economic conditions, many factors could require additions to the allowance for loan losses in future periods above those currently maintained. These factors include: (1) adverse changes in economic conditions and changes in interest rates that may affect the ability of borrowers to make payments on loans, (2) changes in the financial capacity of individual borrowers, (3) changes in the local real estate market and the value of our loan collateral, and (4) future review and evaluation of our loan portfolio, internally or by regulators. The amount of the allowance for loan losses at any time represents good faith estimates that are susceptible to significant changes due to changes in appraisal values of collateral, national and local economic conditions, prevailing interest rates and other factors. See “Business — General — Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. These same factors have caused delinquencies to increase for the mortgages which are the collateral for the mortgage-backed securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Combining the increased delinquencies with liquidity problems in the market has resulted in a decline in the market value of our investments in mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that the decline in the market value of these investments will not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge being recorded in our financial statements.” Changes in Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Business From time to time, legislation, such as the Reform Act, is enacted or regulations are promulgated that have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks and other financial institutions are frequently made in Congress, in the New York legislature and before various bank regulatory agencies. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood of any major changes (in addition to the Reform Act) or the impact such changes might have on us. For a discussion of regulations affecting us, see “Business —Regulation” and “Business—Federal, State and Local Taxation” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any laws, regulations or governmental programs that may be introduced or implemented in the future will have on the financial markets and the economy. A continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our securities. 51 Current Conditions in, and Regulation of, the Banking Industry May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Reform Act into law. The Reform Act is intended to address perceived weaknesses in the U.S. financial regulatory system and prevent future economic and financial crises. There are many provisions of the Reform Act which will be implemented through regulations to be adopted within specified time frames following the effective date of the Reform Act, which creates a risk of uncertainty as to the effect that such provisions will ultimately have. The full impact of the changes in regulation will depend on new regulations that have yet to be written. The new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although it is not possible for us to determine at this time whether the Reform Act will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we believe the following provisions of the Reform Act will have an impact on us: · New Primary Regulatory. On July 21, 2011, the OTS, our then primary federal regulator, was eliminated and the OCC took over the regulation of all federal savings banks, such as the Savings Bank. The Federal Reserve acquired the OTS’s authority over all savings and loan holding companies, such as the Holding Company, and became the supervisor of all subsidiaries of savings and loan holding companies other than depository institutions. As a result, we became subject to regulation, supervision and examination by two federal banking agencies, the OCC and the Federal Reserve, rather than just by the OTS, as was previously the case. The Reform Act also provided for the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). The CFPB has the authority to implement and enforce a variety of existing consumer protection statutes and to issue new regulations. As a new independent bureau within the FRB, it is possible that the CFPB will focus more attention on consumers and may impose requirements more severe than the previous bank regulatory agencies. · Consolidated Holding Company Capital Requirements. The Reform Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish consolidated risk-based and leverage capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institution holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies. These requirements must be no less than those to which insured depository institutions are currently subject, and the new requirements will effectively eliminate the use of newly-issued trust preferred securities as a component of Tier 1 Capital for depository institution holding companies of our size. As a result, no later than the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the Reform Act, we will become subject to consolidated capital requirements to which we have not previously been subject. · Roll Back of Federal Preemption. The Reform Act significantly rolls back the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that federal savings associations and national banks currently enjoy by (1) permitting federal preemption of a state consumer financial law only if such law prevents or significantly interferes with the exercise of a federal savings association’s or national bank’s powers or such state law is preempted by another federal law, (2) mandating that any preemption decision be made on a case by case basis rather than a blanket rule and (3) ending the applicability of preemption to subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks and federal savings associations. As a result, we may now be subject to state laws in each state where we do business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. The Reform Act also includes provisions, subject to further rulemaking by the federal bank regulatory agencies, that may affect our future operations, including provisions that create minimum standards for the origination of mortgages, restrict proprietary trading by banking entities, restrict the sponsorship of and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities that remove certain obstacles to the conversion of savings associations to national banks. We will not be able to determine the impact of these provisions until final rules are promulgated to implement these provisions and other regulatory guidance is provided interpreting these provisions. 52 Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions May Increase the Costs to or Discourage an Acquirer On September 5, 2006, the Board of Directors renewed our Stockholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”), which was originally adopted on and had been in place since September 17, 1996 and had been scheduled to expire on September 30, 2006. The Rights Plan was designed to preserve long-term values and protect stockholders against inadequate offers and other unfair tactics to acquire control of us. Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder of record at the close of business on September 30, 2006 received a dividend distribution of one right to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock at a price of $65. The rights will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in that person or group owning at least 15% of the Common Stock (the “acquiring person or group”). In such case, all stockholders other than the acquiring person or group will be entitled to purchase, by paying the $65 exercise price, Common Stock (or a common stock equivalent) with a value of twice the exercise price. In addition, at any time after such event, and prior to the acquisition by any person or group of 50% or more of the Common Stock, the Board of Directors may, at its option, require each outstanding right (other than rights held by the acquiring person or group) to be exchanged for one share of Common Stock (or one common stock equivalent). If a person or group becomes an acquiring person and we are acquired in a merger or other business combination or sell more than 50% of our assets or earning power, each right will entitle all other holders to purchase, by payment of $65 exercise price, common stock of the acquiring company with a value of twice the exercise price. The renewed rights plan expires on September 30, 2016. The Rights Plan, as well as certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the Savings Bank’s federal stock charter and bylaws, certain federal regulations and provisions of Delaware corporation law, and certain provisions of remuneration plans and agreements applicable to employees and officers of the Savings Bank may have anti-takeover effects by discouraging potential proxy contests and other takeover attempts, particularly those which have not been negotiated with the Board of Directors. The Rights Plan and those other provisions, as well as applicable regulatory restrictions, may also prevent or inhibit the acquisition of a controlling position in the Common Stock and may prevent or inhibit takeover attempts that certain stockholders may deem to be in their or other stockholders’ interest or in our interest, or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Rights Plan and those other provisions may also increase the cost of, and thus discourage, any such future acquisition or attempted acquisition, and would render the removal of the current Board of Directors or management of the Company more difficult. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Implement Our Commercial Business Banking Initiative Our strategy includes a transition to a more “commercial-like” banking institution. We have developed a complement of deposit, loan and cash management products to support this initiative, and intend to expand these product offerings. A business banking unit builds relationships in order to obtain lower-costing deposits, generate fee income, and originate commercial business loans. The success of this initiative is dependent on developing additional product offerings, and building relationships to obtain the deposits and loans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy with respect to this initiative. The FDIC’s Recently Adopted Restoration Plan and the Related Increased Assessment Rate Schedule May Have a Material Effect on Our Results of Operations On October 19, 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a new restoration plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Reform Act, rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016 (as required under the prior restoration plan). Among other things, the new restoration plan provides that the FDIC will forego the uniform three basis point increases in initial assessment rates that was previously scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011 and maintains the current assessment rate schedule. The FDIC intends to pursue further rulemaking regarding the requirement under the Reform Act that the FDIC offset the effect on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets (such as us) of the requirement that the reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, so that more of the cost of raising the reserve ratio to 1.35% will be borne by institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. In this connection, the FDIC Board recently approved a rule that will implement a provision in the Reform Act that changes the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits (as it has been since 1935) to one based on total average assets less Tier 1 Capital (as defined for regulatory purposes). The FDIC also lowered assessment rates, effective April 1, 2011, the new assessment base is based on assets rather than domestic deposits which is a much larger assessment base than in the past. The range of the base assessment rates is 2.5 to 45 basis points, whereas the prior range was 7 to 77.5 basis points. In addition, the FDIC Board approved setting the designated DIF reserve ratio at 2% as a long-term, minimum goal, adopt a lower assessment rate schedule when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15% and, in lieu of FDIC dividends, adopt progressively lower assessment rate schedules when the reserve ratio reaches 2% and 2.5%. Another 53 rule recently approved by the FDIC Board, which replaces a proposed rule approved by the FDIC on April 13, 2010, would revise the deposit insurance assessment system for insured depository institutions with over $10 billion in assets. This rule is not directly applicable to us. There is no guarantee that the rules described above be sufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, which may necessitate further rulemaking, special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. Any such future rulemaking, assessments or increases could have a further material impact on our results of operations. We May Experience Increased Delays in Foreclosure Proceedings Foreclosure proceedings face increasing delays.. While we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any delay in foreclosure sales, we may be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current foreclosure activities. Delays in foreclosure sales, including any delays beyond those currently anticipated, could increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations and make it more difficult for us to prevent losses in our loan portfolio. We May Need to Recognize Other-Than-Temporary Impairment Charges in the Future We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary. However, we have recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges on some securities in our portfolio. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing other-than-temporary impairment evaluation process. There can be no assurance that we will not need to recognize other-than-temporary impairment charges related to securities in the future. The Current Economic Environment Poses Significant Challenges for us and Could Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. While the national and local economies showed signs of improvement since the second half of 2009, unemployment has remained at elevated levels. The housing market in the United States continued to see a significant slowdown during 2009, and foreclosures of single family homes rose to levels not seen in the prior five years. The downturn in the housing market continued in 2011, although the downturn has slowed. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, and construction and land loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Further declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The overall deterioration in economic conditions has subjected us to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, further deterioration in national or local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. These same factors have caused delinquencies to increase for the mortgages which are the collateral for the mortgage-backed securities that we hold in our investment portfolio. Combining the increased delinquencies with liquidity problems in the market has resulted in a decline in the market value of our investments in mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that the decline in the market value of these investments will not cause us to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge in our financial statements. 54 We May Not Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Goodwill Recorded as a Result of Acquisitions Could Become Impaired, Negatively Impacting Our Earnings and Capital Goodwill is presumed to have an indefinite life and is tested annually, or when certain conditions are met, for impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than the goodwill amount, no further evaluation is required and no impairment is recorded. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the goodwill amount, further evaluation would be required to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the goodwill amount and determine if a write down is required. At December 31, 2011, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $16.1 million. Declines in the fair value of the reporting unit may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material effect on our earnings and capital. We May Not Fully Realize the Expected Benefit of Our Deferred Tax Assets At December 31, 2011, we have a deferred tax asset of $34.2 million. This represents the anticipated federal, state and local tax benefits expected to be realized in future years upon the utilization of the underlying tax attributes comprising this balance. In order to use the future benefit of these deferred tax assets, we will need to report taxable income for federal, state and local tax purposes. Although we have reported taxable income for federal, state, and local tax purposes in each of the past three years, there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 