ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued Regulation of the internet may adversely affect our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the internet and online services such as online Yellow Pages, federal, state, local, and foreign governments may adopt laws and regulations, or amend existing laws and regulations, with respect to the internet and other online services. These laws and regulations may affect issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyrights, distribution, and quality of products and services. Any new legislation could hinder the growth in use of the internet generally or in our industry and could impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted if the security of the internet becomes compromised. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information about our advertisers or users, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches or a misappropriation of proprietary information may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Our technical systems could be vulnerable to online security risks, service interruptions or damage to our systems. Our systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users or “hackers,” natural disaster, and similar events. Preventing, alleviating, or eliminating computer viruses and other service-related or security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service. We may need to expend significant resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating potential or actual service interruptions. The occurrence of such unanticipated problems or security breaches could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or misappropriation of proprietary or IAP advertiser-related information or could render us unable to provide services to our IAP advertisers for an indeterminate length of time. The occurrence of any or all of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES Stock prices of technology companies have declined precipitously at times in the past and the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile over the past few years and investors could experience losses in response to factors including the following, many of which are beyond our control: ● decreased demand in the internet services sector; ● variations in our operating results; ● announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; ● changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; ● changes in operating and stock price performance of other technology companies similar to us; ● conditions or trends in the technology industry; ● additions or departures of key personnel; and ● future sales of our common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of companies with securities trading in those markets. These fluctuations, as well as political events, terrorist attacks, threatened or actual war, and general economic conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities holders of other companies often have initiated securities class action litigation against those companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ securities. If the market price of our stock fluctuates and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and experience a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome. This could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 