Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks outlined in this annual report under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements,” as well as other comments included herein regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our company. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. During economic downturns or a rising interest rate environment, the cyclical nature of our business results in lower demand for our products and services and reduced revenue. Our business is cyclical. Overall economic conditions and the purchasing practices of buyers have a significant effect upon our business due to the impact on demand for our products and services. As a result, during downturns, we could operate with a lower level of backlog and may temporarily slow down or halt production at some or all of our facilities. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause some of our leasing customers to lease fewer of our railcars or demand shorter lease terms. An economic downturn or increase in interest rates may reduce demand for our products and services, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices, lower lease utilization rates and decreased profits. Changes in the credit markets and the financial services industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The credit markets and the financial services industry continue to experience volatility which may result in tighter availability of credit on more restrictive terms and limit our ability to sell railcar assets. Our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if our ability to borrow money to finance operations, obtain credit from trade creditors, offer leasing products to our customers or sell railcar assets were to be impaired. In addition, scarcity of capital could also adversely affect our customers’ ability to purchase or pay for products from us or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with product, either of which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Currently, interest rates remain at historically low levels. Higher interest rates could increase the cost of, or potentially deter, new leasing arrangements with our customers or reduce our ability to syndicate railcars under lease to financial institutions, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in the global financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. During periods of volatility in the global financial markets, certain of our customers could delay or otherwise reduce their purchases of railcars and other products and services. If volatile conditions in the global credit markets impact our customers’ access to credit, product order volumes may decrease or customers may default on payments owed to us. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges obtaining credit, or otherwise operating their businesses, the supply of materials we purchase from them to manufacture our products may be interrupted. Any of these conditions or events could result in reductions in our revenues, increased price competition, or increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 10 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents We face aggressive competition by a concentrated group of competitors and a number of factors may influence our performance. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market share, margin and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face aggressive competition by a concentrated group of competitors in all geographic markets and in each area of our business. The railcar manufacturing and repair industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so in the foreseeable future. Competitive factors, including introduction of competitive products, new entrants into certain of our markets, price pressures, limited customer base and the relative competitiveness of our manufacturing facilities and products affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, new technologies or the introduction of new railcars or other product offerings by our competitors could render our products obsolete or less competitive. If we do not compete successfully, our market share, margin and results of operation may be adversely affected. A number of factors may influence our performance, including without limitation: fluctuations in the demand for newly manufactured railcars or marine barges; fluctuations in demand for wheels, repair and parts; our ability to adjust to the cyclical nature of the industries in which we operate; delays in receipt of orders, risks that contracts may be canceled during their term or not renewed and that customers may not purchase the amount of products or services under the contracts as anticipated; our customers may be financially unable to pay for products and services already provided; domestic and global economic conditions including such matters as embargoes or quotas; growth or reduction in the surface transportation industry; steel and specialty component price fluctuations and availability, scrap surcharges, steel scrap prices and other commodity price fluctuations and their impact on product demand and margin; loss of business from, or a decline in the financial condition of, any of the principal customers that represent a significant portion of our total revenues; industry overcapacity and our manufacturing capacity utilization; and other risks, uncertainties and factors. If we are unfavorably affected by any of these factors, our market share, margin and results of operation may be adversely affected. Our actual results may differ significantly from our announced strategic initiatives. From time to time, we have released, and may continue to release information in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, regarding our anticipated future performance and goals. Our actual results may differ significantly and we may not be successful in achieving the objectives outlined in our announced strategic initiatives. Failure to meet these goals could have a material adverse effect on our trading price or volume of our stock. A change in our product mix due to shifts in demand could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We manufacture and, through our GBW joint venture, repair a variety of railcars. The demand for specific types of these railcars and mix of refurbishment work varies from time to time. These shifts in demand could affect our margins and could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currently a portion of our backlog and railcar demand includes a concentrated product mix of covered hoppers and tank cars used in energy related transportation. A sudden change in these markets could have an adverse effect on our profitability. For example, a change in environmental and governmental regulations, competitive pricing, pipeline capacity, the price of crude oil and related products and other factors could reduce demand for railcars in the energy transportation industry. Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. Our manufacturing backlog represents future production for which we have written orders from our customers in various periods, and estimated potential revenue attributable to those orders. Some of this backlog is subject to our fulfillment of certain competitive conditions. Our reported backlog may not be converted to revenue in any particular period and some of our contracts permit cancellations without financial penalties or with limited compensation that would not replace lost revenue or margins. Actual revenue from such contracts may not equal The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents our anticipated revenues based on our backlog, and therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. We rely on limited suppliers for certain components and services needed in our production. If we are not able to procure specialty components or services on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of materials, components and services in acceptable quantities and quality from our suppliers. In 2014, the top ten suppliers for all inventory purchases accounted for approximately 45% of total purchases. Amsted Rail Company, Inc. accounted for 19% of total inventory purchases in 2014. No other suppliers accounted for more than 10% of total inventory purchases. Certain components of our products, particularly specialized components like castings, bolsters, trucks, wheels and axles, and certain services, such as lining capabilities, are currently available from only a limited number of suppliers. Increases in the number of railcars manufactured have increased the demand for such components and services and strong demand may cause industry-wide shortages if suppliers are in the process of ramping up production or reach capacity production. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers involves risks, including limited control over pricing, availability and delivery schedules. If any one or more of our suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our components or services in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, or cease to provide services or manufacture components of acceptable quality, we could incur disruptions or be limited in our production of our products and we could have to seek alternative sources for these components or services. We could also incur delays while we attempt to locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers and we might be unable to engage acceptable alternative suppliers on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, we are increasing the number of components and services we manufacture or provide ourselves, directly or through joint ventures. If we are not successful at manufacturing such components or providing such services or have production problems after transitioning to self-produced supplies, we may not be able to replace such components or services from third party suppliers in a timely manner. Any such disruption in our supply of specialized components and services or increased costs of those components or services could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. U.S., Canadian and railroad industry regulatory authorities are considering various proposals concerning tank railcar manufacturing standards. We cannot predict what regulatory changes may be made in this regard, if any, or when any such regulatory changes may become effective. If adopted, new regulations could materially affect the tank railcar manufacturing process industry-wide, which could negatively affect the potential availability of certain critical components and raw materials including, in particular, steel. If we are unable to source critical components and raw materials like steel in a timely manner and at reasonable cost, we may be unable to manufacture railcars that comply with any new regulations or take advantage of any increase in demand for our products and services as a result of any such new regulations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers, the loss of or reduction of business from one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few major customers. Although we have some long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, we cannot be assured that our customers will continue to use our products or services or that they will continue to do so at historical levels. A reduction in the purchase or leasing of our products or a termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 12 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents Train derailments or other accidents or claims could subject us to legal claims and/or result in regulatory changes that adversely impact our business, financial condition and our results of operations. We provide a number of services which include the manufacture and supply of wheels, components and parts and lease of railcars for our customers that transport a variety of commodities, including tank railcars that transport hazardous materials such as crude oil, ethanol and other products. We could be subject to various legal claims, including claims for negligence, personal injury, physical damage and product or service liability, as well as potential penalties and liability under environmental laws and regulations, in the event of a derailment or other accident involving railcars, including tank railcars. If we become subject to any such claims and are unable successfully to resolve them or have inadequate insurance for such claims, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. On July 6, 2013, a train carrying crude oil and operated by Montreal, Main & Atlantic Railway, Inc. derailed in the town of Lac-Mégantic, Quebec, causing severe damage and resulting in a number of human fatalities. Some of our competitors and a number of other parties, have been named as a defendant in a class action lawsuit regarding this derailment alleging wrongful death and negligence claims. While we are not currently aware of circumstances that would indicate we are likely to have liability in this matter, the amount of potential damages at issue in the class action could be extremely large. If we were to be found liable for significant damages with respect to this claim, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, U.S., Canadian and railroad industry regulatory authorities are considering various proposals that would restrict or even eliminate the use of DOT 111 cars for the transportation of certain hazardous materials. We have 312 tank railcars in our lease fleet with a net book value of approximately $26.4 million as of August 31, 2014 which could be negatively impacted in the event of regulatory changes and any refurbishment requirements. We are unable to predict what regulatory changes may be made in this regard or even what time period such regulatory changes may become effective. While certain regulatory changes could result in increased levels of repair or refurbishment work for our GBW Railcar Services joint venture and/or new tank car manufacturing activity, if we are unable to manage to adapt our business successfully to changing regulations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Delays in issuing definitive regulations or other factors which could prolong or exacerbate uncertainty in the marketplace could adversely impact orders for new railcars, including orders currently in our backlog. Any such reduction or delay in orders for new railcars could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain proposals restrict the operation of trains carrying hazardous materials or reduce train speeds on an already congested rail network. Further congestion on the railroads could lead to reduced velocity. This could also lead to an increase in the cost of rail freight transportation and impact availability making it less competitive compared to alternative modes of freight transportation. It could also lead to reduced demand for our products as railroads limit additional equipment on their lines. Any failure by us to comply with regulations imposed by federal and foreign agencies could negatively affect our financial results. Our operations and the industry we serve, including our customers, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental, regulatory and industry authorities and by federal and foreign agencies. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance and related standards; and railroad safety. New regulatory rulings and regulations from these entities could impact our financial results, demand for our products and the economic value of our assets. In addition, if we fail to comply with the requirements and regulations of these entities, we could face sanctions and penalties that could negatively affect our financial results. The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents Risks related to our operations outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our operating results. Our current operations outside of the U.S. and any future expansion of our international operations are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade, financial market or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries in which we operate or may operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance and manufacturing. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate or may operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences, currency and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. The uncertainty of the legal environment or geo-political risks in these and other areas could limit our ability to enforce our rights effectively. Because we have operations outside the U.S., we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties and fines. Any international expansion or acquisition that we undertake could amplify these risks related to operating outside of the U.S. Risks related to potential misconduct by employees may adversely impact us. We recently received various complaints through our whistleblower hotline concerning alleged misconduct involving a senior employee at our Concarril manufacturing facility in Sahagun, Mexico. While an independent investigation is underway, and in its early stages, we currently believe that the alleged misconduct did not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that such material adverse impact will not occur, or that we will succeed in preventing misconduct by employees in the future. Any such events in the future may materially and adversely impact us. If we or our joint ventures fail to complete capital expenditure projects on time and within budget, or if these projects, once completed, fail to operate as anticipated, such failure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time-to-time, we, or our joint ventures, undertake strategic capital projects in order to enhance, expand and/or upgrade facilities and operational capabilities. We are currently enhancing our manufacturing facilities in Mexico to both replace and increase our production capacity and become more vertically integrated. Our ability, and our joint ventures’ ability, to complete these projects on time and within budget, and for us to realize the anticipated increased revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on these investments or other strategic capital projects that may be undertaken is subject to a number of risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including a variety of market, operational, permitting, and labor related factors. In addition, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater than originally anticipated. If we, or our joint ventures, are not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of these strategic capital projects, or if unanticipated implementation costs are incurred, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We operate two manufacturing facilities in Sahagun, Mexico, one of which we own and one which is leased. Our lease of the Sahagun, Mexico manufacturing facility expires in November 2014. We are in the process of replacing this leased capacity with an alternative site in Tlaxcala, Mexico which was purchased during 2014. If we are unable to fully vacate the leased manufacturing facility by the expiration of the lease, we may be subject to penalties for overstaying the lease. In addition, if we are unable to move equipment, startup or produce railcars at our new facility at Tlaxcala on time or on budget this could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption or decrease in our manufacturing operations or penalties in connection with overstaying our lease could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents Our relationships with our joint venture and alliance partners could be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our business. We have entered into several joint venture agreements and other alliances with other companies to increase our sourcing alternatives, reduce costs, to produce new railcars and repair and retrofit railcars for the North American marketplace. We may seek to expand our relationships or enter into new agreements with other companies. If our joint venture or alliance partners are unable to fulfill their contractual obligations or if these relationships are otherwise not successful in the future, our manufacturing and other costs could increase, we could encounter production disruptions, growth opportunities could fail to materialize, or we could be required to fund such joint venture or alliances in amounts significantly greater than initially anticipated, any of which could adversely affect our business. If any of our joint ventures generate significant losses, including future potential goodwill impairment charges, it could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if our joint venture with Watco is unable to operate as anticipated, incurs significant losses or otherwise is unable to honor its obligation to us under the GBW joint venture agreements, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Shortages of skilled labor could adversely affect our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture of railcars and marine barges, repair, refurbishment, retrofitting and maintenance of railcars and provision of wheel services and supply of parts. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers often exceeds supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers such as welders and machine operators could restrict our ability to maintain or increase production rates, lead to production inefficiencies and increase our labor costs. A failure to design or manufacture products or technologies or to achieve timely certification or market acceptance of new products or technologies could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We continue to introduce new railcar products and technologies, and we periodically accept orders prior to receipt of railcar certification or proof of ability to manufacture a quality product that meets customer standards. We could be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new railcar products and technologies. Our inability to develop and manufacture such new products and technologies in a timely fashion and profitable manner, obtain timely certification, or achieve market acceptance, or the existence of quality problems in our new products, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations and subject us to penalties, cancellation of orders and/or other damages. We could be unable to remarket leased railcars on favorable terms upon lease termination or realize the expected residual values, which could reduce our revenue and decrease our overall return. We re-lease or sell railcars we own or manage upon the expiration of existing lease terms. The total rental payments we receive under our operating leases do not fully amortize the acquisition costs of the leased equipment, which exposes us to risks associated with remarketing the railcars. Our ability to remarket leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, but not limited to, market and industry conditions, cost of and demand for newer models, costs associated with the refurbishment of the railcars and interest rates. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in reduced revenues and margins or net gain on disposition of equipment and decrease our overall returns and affect our ability to syndicate railcars to investors. The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents We could have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that we acquire or joint ventures we enter into, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our acquisition and joint venture strategy depends upon our ability to successfully complete acquisitions, to enter into joint ventures and integrate any businesses that we acquire into our existing business. The integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by causing unforeseen operating difficulties, diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations and requiring significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our business. The difficulties of integration could be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. Each of these circumstances could be more likely to occur or more severe in consequence in the case of an acquisition or joint venture involving a business that is outside of our core areas of expertise. In addition, we could be unable to retain key employees or customers of the combined businesses. We could face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls, information systems and operational functions of the acquired companies and we also could fail to realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates and joint ventures. Any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and significant attrition within our management team or unsuccessful succession planning could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors’ hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. We are vulnerable to attrition among our current senior management team and other key employees. A loss of any such personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain key members of our senior management team are at or nearing retirement age. If we are unsuccessful in our succession planning efforts, the continuity of our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our product and service warranties could expose us to potentially significant claims. We offer our customers limited warranties for many of our products and services. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future, such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our production or servicing process or claims for which the cost of repairing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, customers seeking monetary damages, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation. If warranty claims attributable to actions of third party component manufacturers are not recoverable from such parties due to their poor financial condition or other reasons, we could be liable for warranty claims and other risks for using these materials on our products. The timing of our asset sales and related revenue recognition could cause significant differences in our quarterly results and liquidity. We may build railcars or marine barges in anticipation of a customer order, or that are leased to a customer and ultimately planned to be sold to a third party. The difference in timing of production and the ultimate sale is subject to risk. In addition, we periodically sell railcars from our own lease fleet and the timing and volume of such sales is difficult to predict. As a result, comparisons of our manufacturing revenue, deliveries, quarterly net gain on disposition of equipment, income and liquidity between quarterly periods within one year and between 16 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents comparable periods in different years may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Our financial performance and market value could cause future write-downs of goodwill or intangibles in future periods. We, and our joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of accounting, are required to perform an annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite lived assets which could result in an impairment charge if it is determined that the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the fair value. We perform a goodwill impairment test annually during our third fiscal quarter. Goodwill is also tested more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events indicates that a potential impairment exists. When changes in circumstances, such as a decline in the market price of our common stock, changes in demand or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made in assessing the appropriate valuation of goodwill indicate the carrying amount of certain indefinite lived assets may not be recoverable, the assets are evaluated for impairment. Among other things, our assumptions used in the valuation of goodwill, which relate to our Wheels, Repair & Parts segment, include growth of revenue and margins and increased cash flows over time. If actual operating results were to differ from these assumptions, it may result in an impairment of our goodwill. A non-cash impairment charge of $76.9 million ($71.8 million, net of tax) was recorded for the year ended August 31, 2013 which relates to our Wheels, Repair & Parts segment. As of August 31, 2014, we had $43.3 million of goodwill in our Wheels, Repair & Parts segment, relating to our wheels and parts business. Future write-downs of goodwill and intangibles could affect certain of the financial covenants under debt instruments and could restrict our financial flexibility. In the event of goodwill impairment, we may have to test other intangible assets for impairment. Impairment charges to our or our joint venture’s goodwill or our indefinite lived assets would impact our results of operations. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which could increase costs or have an adverse effect on results of operations. We are subject to extensive national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, air emissions, water discharge, solid waste and hazardous substances handling and disposal and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently change. We could incur unexpected costs, penalties and other civil and criminal liability if we fail to comply with environmental laws or permits issued to us pursuant to those laws. We also could incur costs or liabilities related to off-site waste disposal or remediating soil or groundwater contamination at our properties, including these set forth below and in the “Environmental Matters” section of this Report. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital expenditures or changes to our operations. In addition to environmental, health and safety laws, the transportation of commodities by railcar raises potential risks in the event of a derailment or other accident. Generally, liability under existing law in the U.S. and Canada for accidents such as derailments depends on the negligence of the party. However, for certain hazardous commodities being shipped, strict liability concepts may apply. Our Portland, Oregon manufacturing facility is located adjacent to the Willamette River. We have entered into a Voluntary Cleanup Agreement with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) in which we agreed to conduct an investigation of whether, and to what extent, past or present operations at the Portland property may have released hazardous substances to the environment. We are also conducting groundwater remediation relating to a historical spill on the property which preceded our ownership. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified portions of the river bed of the Portland Harbor, including the portion fronting the Company’s manufacturing facility, as a federal “National Priority List” or “Superfund” site due to sediment contamination (the “Portland Harbor Site”). We, along with more than 140 other parties, have received a “General Notice” of potential liability from the EPA relating to the Portland Harbor Site. The letter advised us that we may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation (which liability The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents may be joint and several with other potentially responsible parties) as well as for natural resource damages resulting from releases of hazardous substances to the site. We are part of a group that signed an Administrative Order on Consent (“AOC”) to perform a remedial investigation/feasibility study (“RI/FS”) of the Portland Harbor Site under EPA oversight, and several additional entities have not signed such consent, but are nevertheless contributing money to the effort. We have agreed to initially bear a percentage of the total costs incurred in connection with the investigation. EPA expects the investigation to continue until 2017. We cannot assure that any such costs will be recoverable from third parties. A draft of the remedial investigation study was submitted to the EPA on October 27, 2009. The draft feasibility study was submitted to the EPA on March 30, 2012. The draft feasibility study evaluates several alternative cleanup approaches. The approaches submitted would take from 2 to 28 years with costs ranging from $9 million to $163 million for cleanup of the area of the Willamette River adjacent to our Portland, Oregon manufacturing facility, depending primarily on the selected remedial action level. The draft feasibility study does not address responsibility for the costs of clean-up or allocate such costs among potentially responsible parties, or define precise boundaries for the cleanup. Responsibility for funding and implementing the EPA’s selected cleanup will be determined after the issuance of the Record of Decision. We have also signed an Order on Consent with DEQ to finalize the investigation of potential onsite sources of contamination that may have a release pathway to the Willamette River. Interim precautionary measures are also required in the order and we are currently discussing with the DEQ potential remedial actions which may be required. Our aggregate expenditure has not been material during the 14-year period, however, we could incur significant expenses for remediation. Some or all of any such outlay may be recoverable from other responsible parties. However, we cannot assure that any such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Because these environmental investigations are still underway, sufficient information is currently not available to determine our liability, if any, for the cost of any required remediation of the Portland Harbor Site on our adjacent land or to estimate a range of potential loss. Based on the results of the pending investigations and future assessments of natural resource damages, we may be required to incur costs associated with additional phases of investigation or remedial action, and may be liable for damages to natural resources. In addition, we may be required to perform periodic maintenance dredging in order to continue to launch vessels from our launch ways in Portland, Oregon, on the Willamette River, and the river’s classification as a Superfund site could result in some limitations on future dredging and launch activities. Any of these matters could adversely affect our business and Consolidated Financial Statements, or the value of our Portland property. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants and other parties, including financial information, intellectual property and personal identification information. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. The steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent current or rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts or consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, or other technological developments may result in the technology and security measures used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, legal and financial exposure, negative impacts on our customers’ willingness to transact business with us and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 18 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents We have indebtedness, which could have negative consequences to our business or results of operations. As of August 31, 2014, our total debt was approximately $458.2 million, consisting of borrowings under our convertible notes, credit facilities and term loans. Our significant indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. It may be difficult for us to satisfy our repayment and other obligations with respect to such indebtedness, and we may not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness as it matures. Significant indebtedness may also increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic, industry or competitive developments or conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We may be limited in our ability to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements and may be required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness. We are more exposed to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. As a consequence of our level of indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations may be dedicated to debt service requirements. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants, a default may occur, in which case the lender could accelerate the debt. We cannot be assured that we would be able to renegotiate, refinance, restructure or otherwise obtain the necessary funds to satisfy the indebtedness or these obligations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could lead to increased costs and lower profitability. Outside of the U.S., we operate in Mexico, Germany and Poland, and our non-U.S. businesses conduct their operations in local currencies and other regional currencies. We also source materials worldwide. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products in foreign markets or our cost competitiveness and may adversely affect our profitability. Although we attempt to mitigate a portion of our exposure to changes in currency rates through currency rate hedge contracts and other activities, these efforts cannot fully eliminate the risks associated with the foreign currencies. In addition, some of our borrowings are in foreign currency, giving rise to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates. A material or adverse change in exchange rates could result in significant deterioration of profits or in losses for us. Fluctuations in the availability and price of energy, freight transportation, steel and other raw materials, and our fixed price contracts could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis and could adversely affect our margins and revenue of our Manufacturing and Wheels, Repair & Parts businesses. A significant portion of our business depends upon the adequate supply of steel, components and other raw materials at competitive prices and a small number of suppliers provide a substantial amount of our requirements. The cost of steel and all other materials used in the production of our railcars represents more than half of our direct manufacturing costs per railcar and in the production of our marine barges represents more than 30% of our direct manufacturing costs per marine barge. Our businesses also depend upon the adequate supply of energy at competitive prices. When the price of energy increases, it adversely impacts our operating costs and could have an adverse effect upon our ability to conduct our businesses on a cost-effective basis. We cannot be assured that we will continue to have access to supplies of energy or necessary components for manufacturing railcars and marine barges. Our ability to meet demand for our products could be adversely affected by the loss of access to any of these supplies, the inability to arrange alternative access to any materials, or suppliers limiting allocation of materials to us. In some instances, we have fixed price contracts which anticipate material price increases and surcharges, or contracts that contain actual or formulaic pass-through of material price increases and surcharges. However, if the price of steel or other raw materials were to fluctuate in excess of anticipated increases on which we have based our fixed price contracts, or if we were unable to adjust our selling prices or have adequate protection in The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents our contracts against changes in material prices, or if we are unable to reduce operating costs to offset any price increases, our margins would be adversely affected. The loss of suppliers or their inability to meet our price, quality, quantity and delivery requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis. Decreases in the price of scrap adversely impact our Wheels, Repair & Parts margin and revenue. A portion of our Wheels, Repair & Parts business involves scrapping steel parts and the resulting revenue from such scrap steel increases our margins and revenues. When the price of scrap steel declines, our margins and revenues in such business therefore decrease. Some of our employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions at some of our operations. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot be assured that our relations with our workforce will remain positive. Union organizers are actively working to organize at some of our other facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, or if union representation is implemented at such sites and we are unable to agree with the union on reasonable employment terms, including wages, benefits, and work rules, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with lay-offs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of our operations or due to the difficulties of restarting our operations that have been temporarily shuttered. A prolonged decline in performance of the rail freight industry would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part upon the performance of the rail freight industry, which in turn depends on the health of the economy. If railcar loadings, railcar and railcar components replacement rates or refurbishment rates or industry demand for our railcar products weaken or otherwise do not materialize, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Updates or changes to our information technology systems may result in problems that could negatively impact our business. We have information technology systems, comprising hardware, network, software, people, processes and other infrastructure that are important to the operation of our businesses. We continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to information technology systems that support substantially all of our operating and financial functions. We could experience problems in connection with such implementations, including compatibility issues, training requirements, higher than expected implementation costs and other integration challenges and delays. A significant problem with an implementation, integration with other systems or ongoing management and operation of our systems could negatively impact our business by disrupting operations. Such a problem could also have an adverse effect on our ability to generate and interpret accurate management and financial reports and other information on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial reporting system and internal controls and adversely affect our ability to manage our business. 20 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We are a defendant in several pending cases in various jurisdictions. If we are unsuccessful in resolving these claims, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, future claims that may arise relating to any pending or new matters, whether brought against us or initiated by us against third parties, could distract management’s attention from business operations and increase our legal and related costs, which could also negatively impact our business and results of operations. We could be liable for physical damage, business interruption or product liability claims that exceed our insurance coverage. The nature of our business subjects us to physical damage, business interruption and product liability claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that carry hazardous or volatile materials. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage at commercially reasonable levels compared to similarly-sized heavy equipment manufacturers, an unusually large physical damage, business interruption or product liability claim or a series of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our production process could exceed our insurance coverage or result in damage to our reputation. We could be unable to procure adequate insurance on a cost-effective basis in the future. The ability to insure our businesses, facilities and rail assets is an important aspect of our ability to manage risk. As there are only limited providers of this insurance to the railcar industry, there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available on a cost-effective basis in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that our insurance carriers will be able to pay current or future claims. Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in the application of accounting policies could adversely affect our financial results. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and our independent registered public accounting firm) may amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the revision of prior period financial statements. Changes in accounting standards can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we may take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service may contest. We have in the past and may in the future take tax positions that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may contest. We are required by an IRS regulation to disclose particular tax positions to the IRS as part of our tax returns for that year and future years. If the IRS successfully contests a tax position that we take, we may be required to pay additional taxes, interest or fines that may adversely affect our results of operation and financial position. The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents Fires, natural disasters, severe weather conditions or public health crisis could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or higher expenses. Any serious disruption at any of our facilities due to fire, hurricane, earthquake, flood, or any other natural disaster, or an epidemic or other public health crisis, or a panic reaction to a perceived health risk, could impair our ability to use our facilities and have a material adverse impact on our revenues and increase our costs and expenses. If there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of our facilities, particularly any of our Mexican facilities, it could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers, cause a significant disruption to our operations, cause us to incur significant costs to relocate or reestablish these functions and negatively impact our operating results. While we insure against certain business interruption risks, such insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, and other armed conflict involving the U.S. or its interests abroad may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies, potentially preventing us from meeting our financial and other obligations. In particular, the negative impacts of these events may affect the industries in which we operate. This could result in delays in or cancellations of the purchase of our products or shortages in raw materials, parts, or components. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Compliance with recently passed health care legislation and increases in the cost of providing health care plans to our employees may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “Acts”). Among other things, the Acts contain provisions that affect employer-sponsored health care plans, impose excise taxes on certain plans, and reduce the tax benefits available to employers that receive the Medicare Part D subsidy. Nationally, the cost of providing health care plans to a company’s employees has increased at annual rates in excess of inflation. There continues to be uncertainty whether the Acts will increase the cost of employee health plan coverage. Continued significant annual increases in the cost of providing employee health coverage may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our financial condition and profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Changes in estimates of projected future operating results, loss of deductibility of items, recapture of prior deductions (including related to interest on convertible notes), or changes in assumptions regarding our ability to generate future taxable income could result in significant increases to our tax expense and liabilities that could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. 22 The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties or if third parties assert that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in the market may be harmed, and our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. The protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. However, these protections might be inadequate. Our pending or future trademark, copyright and patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, might not be sufficiently broad. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, third parties might assert that our products, services, or other business activities infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to cease selling or using products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenues, pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property or pay substantial fees to obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe third party intellectual property rights, our sales could be harmed and our costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Greenbrier Companies 2014 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 