Item 1A. Risk Factors - -------- ------------ As used in this section, references to "we" or "us" or "our" refer to the Company, the Operating Partnership, and HPRS. The following risks apply to Home Properties, the Operating Partnership, and HPRS, in addition to other risks and factors set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Real Estate Investment Risks - ---------------------------- We are subject to risks that are part of owning real estate. - ------------------------------------------------------------ Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. If our communities do not generate revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. A multifamily apartment community's revenues and value may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions; local economic conditions; local real estate considerations (such as over supply of or reduced demand for apartments); the perception by prospective residents of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the communities or neighborhoods in which they are located and the quality of local schools and other amenities; and increased operating costs (including real estate taxes and utilities). Certain significant fixed expenses are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. We depend on rental income for cash flow to pay expenses and make distributions. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We are dependent on rental income to pay operating expenses and to generate cash to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to attract and retain residents or if our residents are unable, due to an adverse change in the economic condition of the region or otherwise, to pay their rental obligations, our ability to make expected distributions will be adversely affected. In addition, the weather and other factors outside of our control can result in an increase in the operating expenses for which we are responsible. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and we may not be able to - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- respond to changing conditions quickly. - --------------------------------------- Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we have limited ability to vary our portfolio quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the prohibition in the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") on REITs holding property for sale and related regulations may affect our ability to sell properties without adversely affecting distributions to stockholders. A significant number of our properties were acquired using UPREIT Units and are subject to certain agreements, which restrict our ability to sell such properties in transactions that would create current taxable income to the former owners. Our business is subject to competition. - --------------------------------------- We plan to continue to acquire additional multifamily residential properties in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Southeast Florida regions of the United States. There are a number of multifamily developers and other real estate companies that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition, prospective residents and land for development. Most of our properties are in developed areas where there are other properties of the same type. Competition from other properties may affect our ability to attract and retain residents, to increase rental rates and to minimize expenses of operation. Competition for the acquisition of properties could increase prices for the types of properties we would like to pursue and adversely affect our financial performance. Repositioning and development risks could affect our profitability. - ------------------------------------------------------------------- A key component of our strategy is to acquire properties and to reposition them for long-term growth. In addition, we have developed and are in the process of developing new apartment units. We plan to continue to expand our development activities. A variety of factors could negatively impact our ability to timely complete repositioning activities and to develop new units within anticipated budgets and time-lines. These include delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and authorizations and increased costs of construction. Our inability to charge rents that will be sufficient to offset the effects of these delays and any increase in costs may impair our profitability. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market conditions. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------- Virtually all of the leases for our Properties are short-term leases (generally, one year or less). Typically, our residents can leave after the end of a one-year lease term. As a result, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market conditions more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could adversely affect us in a material way. Certain extraordinary losses may not be covered by our comprehensive liability, fire, extended and rental loss insurance. If an uninsured loss occurred, we could lose our investment in, and cash flow from, the affected property (but we would be required to repay any indebtedness secured by that property and related taxes and other charges). Compliance with laws and regulations may be costly. - --------------------------------------------------- Many laws and governmental regulations are applicable to the Properties and changes in the laws and regulations, or their interpretation by agencies and the courts, occur frequently. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. In addition, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (the "FHAA") requires apartment communities first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. Non-compliance with the ADA or the FHAA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Management believes that the Properties are substantially in compliance with present ADA and FHAA requirements. Under the Federal Fair Housing Act and state fair housing laws, discrimination on the basis of certain protected classes is prohibited. Violation of these laws can result in significant damage awards to victims. The Company has a strong policy against any kind of discriminatory behavior and trains its employees to avoid discrimination or the appearance of discrimination. There is no assurance, however, that an employee will not violate the Company's policy against discrimination and thus violate fair housing laws. This could subject the Company to legal actions and the possible imposition of damage awards. Real Estate Financing Risks - --------------------------- There are general risks related to debt. - ---------------------------------------- We are subject to the customary risks associated with debt financing including the potential inability to refinance existing mortgage indebtedness upon maturity on favorable terms. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet its debt service obligations, the property could be foreclosed upon. This could adversely affect our cash flow and, consequently, the amount available for distributions to stockholders. There is no legal limit on the amount of debt we can incur. - ----------------------------------------------------------- The Board of Directors has adopted a policy of limiting our indebtedness to approximately 55% of our total market capitalization (with the equity component of total market capitalization based on the per share net asset value published by Home Properties in its most recent quarterly earnings press release), but our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness, we may incur. Accordingly, the Board of Directors could alter or eliminate its current policy on borrowing. If this policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and increase the risk of default on our indebtedness. Our net asset value fluctuates based on a number of factors. Our line of credit agreement and agreement with holders of our preferred stock limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. We may not be able to refinance our debt when it matures. - --------------------------------------------------------- We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet the required payments of principal and interest. Because a significant amount of the financing is not fully self-amortizing, we anticipate that only a portion of the principal of our indebtedness will be repaid prior to maturity. So, we will need to refinance debt. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will not be successful in refinancing existing indebtedness or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing indebtedness. We aim to stagger our debt maturities with the goal of minimizing the amount of debt which must be refinanced in any year. Financing may not be available and issuing equity could dilute our stockholders' - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- interests. - ---------- Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common and preferred equity. Debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, or on favorable terms or at all. If we issue additional equity securities to finance developments and acquisitions instead of incurring debt, the interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted. Federal Income Tax Risks - ------------------------ There is no assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT. - ----------------------------------------------------------------- We believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders as long as it distributes currently at least 90% of its taxable income (excluding net capital gain). No assurance can be provided, however, that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. We are required to make certain distributions to qualify as a REIT, and there is no assurance that we will have the funds necessary to make the distributions. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we currently are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gain). In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income for that year, and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from the Operating Partnership. However, differences in timing between taxable income and cash available for distribution could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable us to meet the 90% distribution requirement (and, therefore, to maintain our REIT qualification) and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. The Operating Partnership is required to pay (or reimburse us, as its general partner, for) certain taxes and other liabilities and expenses that we incur, including any taxes that we must pay in the event we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, because we are unable to retain earnings (resulting from REIT distribution requirements), we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. There can be no assurance that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would be available to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse consequences. - ----------------------------------------------------------------- If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification is lost. The additional tax burden on us would significantly reduce the cash available for distribution by us to our stockholders. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could reduce materially the value of our common stock and would cause all our distributions to be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (although, subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction with respect to these distributions). The Operating Partnership intends to qualify as a partnership but there is no - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- guaranty that it will qualify. - ------------------------------ We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were to be successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an entity that is taxable as a corporation, we would cease to qualify as a REIT because the value of our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership would exceed 5% of our assets and because we would be considered to hold more than 10% of the voting securities of another corporation. Also, the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for distribution to its limited partners. Finally, the classification of the Operating Partnership as a corporation would cause its limited partners to recognize gain (upon the event that causes the Operating Partnership to be classified as a corporation) at least equal to their "negative capital accounts" (and possibly more, depending upon the circumstances). Other Risks - ----------- The ability of our stockholders to effect a change of control is limited by - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation as well as by Maryland law - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- and our Executive Retention Plan. - --------------------------------- Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the "Articles of Incorporation"), authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to a total of 80 million shares of common stock, 10 million shares of excess stock and 10 million shares of preferred stock and to establish the rights and preferences of any shares issued. Further, under the Articles of Incorporation, the stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of its taxable year. We have limited ownership of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock by any single stockholder to 8.0% of the aggregate value of our outstanding shares The percentage ownership limit described above, the issuance of preferred stock in the future and the absence of cumulative voting rights could have the effect of: (i) delaying or preventing a change of control of us even if a change in control were in the stockholders' interest; (ii) deterring tender offers for our common stock that may be beneficial to the stockholders; or (iii) limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block of our common stock in excess of the percentage ownership limit or otherwise to effect a change of control of us. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our stockholders' best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up to re-election annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in control. Also, to assure that our management has appropriate incentives to focus on our business and Properties in the face of a change of control situation, we have adopted an executive retention plan which provides some key employees with salary, bonus and some benefits continuation in the event of a change of control. Potential conflicts of interest could affect some directors' decisions. - ----------------------------------------------------------------------- Unlike persons acquiring common stock, certain of our directors, who constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors, own a significant portion of their interest in us through UPREIT Units. As a result of their status as holders of UPREIT Units, those directors and other limited partners may have interests that conflict with stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and the Operating Partnership. In particular, those directors may suffer different or more adverse tax consequences than us upon the sale or refinancing of some of the Properties as a result of unrealized gain attributable to those Properties. Thus, those directors and the stockholders may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale or refinancing of Properties. In addition, those directors, as limited partners of the Operating Partnership, have the right to approve certain fundamental transactions such as the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, merger or consolidation or dissolution of the Operating Partnership and certain amendments to the Operating Partnership Agreement. The future sale of shares may negatively impact our stock price. - ---------------------------------------------------------------- Sales of substantial amounts of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. The Operating Partnership has issued and outstanding approximately 13.3 million UPREIT Units as of December 31, 2006, to persons other than us or the Trust, which may be exchanged on a one-for-one basis for shares of Common Stock under certain circumstances. In addition, Home Properties has granted options to purchase shares of stock to certain directors, officers and employees of Home Properties, of which, as of December 31, 2006, 2,348,014 options remained outstanding and unexercised. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - -------- ------------------------- None. 