Item 1a. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other foreign governments and tighter availability of credit on more restrictive terms at higher cost of capital. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance operations, obtain credit from trade creditors, offer leasing products to our customers or sell railcar assets to other lessors were to be impaired. In addition, the economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers’ ability to purchase or pay for products from us or our suppliers’ ability to provide us with product, either of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness and terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. We have a high level of indebtedness, a portion of which has variable interest rates. Although we intend to refinance our debt on or before maturity, there can be no assurance that we will be successful, or if refinanced, that it will be at favorable rates and terms. If we are unable to successfully refinance our debt, we could have inadequate liquidity to fund our ongoing cash needs. In addition, our high level of indebtedness and our financial covenants could limit our ability to borrow additional amounts of money for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. It could also limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt. The limitations of our financial covenants could restrict our ability to fund foreign operations or joint ventures, which in turn could limit their availability of cash for working capital needs and day to day operations. The high amount of debt increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures. During economic downturns or a rising interest rate environment, the cyclical nature of our business results in lower demand for our products and reduced revenue. Our business is cyclical. Overall economic conditions and the purchasing practices of railcar buyers have a significant effect upon our railcar Manufacturing, Refurbishment & Parts and Leasing & Services businesses due to the impact on demand for new, refurbished, used and leased products. As a result, during downturns, we could operate with a lower level of backlog and may temporarily slow down or halt production at some or all of our facilities. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause some of our leasing customers to lease fewer of our railcars or demand shorter terms. An economic downturn or increase in interest rates may reduce demand for railcars, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices, lower lease utilization rates and decreased profits or losses. A prolonged decline in performance of the rail freight industry would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part upon the performance of the rail freight industry, which in turn depends on the health of the economy. If railcar loadings, railcar replacement rates or industry demand for railcar products remain weak or otherwise do not materialize due to these or other reasons, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 12 The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report Table of Contents We compete in a highly competitive and concentrated industry which may adversely impact our financial results. We face aggressive competition by a concentrated group of competitors in all geographic markets and each industry sector in which we operate. Some of these companies have significantly greater resources or may operate more efficiently than we do. The effect of this competition could reduce our revenues and margins, limit our ability to grow, increase pricing pressure on our products, and otherwise affect our financial results. In addition, because of the concentrated nature of our competitors, customers and suppliers, we face a heightened risk that further consolidation of our competitors, customers and suppliers could adversely affect our revenues, cost of revenues and profitability. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers, the loss of one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue and backlog is generated from a few major customers such as BNSF, GE, UP and Crowley Maritime. Although we have some long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, we cannot be assured that our customers will continue to use our products or services or that they will continue to do so at historical levels. A reduction in the purchase or leasing of our products or a termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Fluctuations in the availability and price of steel and other raw materials could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis and could adversely affect our margins and revenue of our refurbishment and parts business. A significant portion of our business depends upon the adequate supply of steel at competitive prices and a small number of suppliers provide a substantial amount of our requirements. The cost of steel and all other materials used in the production of our railcars represents more than half of our direct manufacturing costs per railcar. Our businesses depend upon the adequate supply of other materials, including castings and specialty components, at competitive prices. We cannot be assured that we will continue to have access to supplies of necessary components for manufacturing railcars. Our ability to meet demand for our products could be adversely affected by the loss of access to any of these supplies, the inability to arrange alternative access to any materials, or suppliers limiting allocation of materials to us. If the price of steel or other raw materials were to fluctuate and we were unable to adjust our selling prices or have adequate protection in our contracts against changes in material prices or reduce operating costs to offset any price increases, our margins would be adversely affected. The loss of suppliers or their inability to meet our price, quality, quantity and delivery requirements could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and sell our products on a cost-effective basis. When the price of scrap steel decreases it adversely impacts our refurbishment and parts margin and revenue. Part of our refurbishment and parts business involves scrapping steel parts and the resulting revenue from such scrap steel increases our margins and revenues. When the price of scrap steel declines, our margins and revenues in such business therefore decrease. The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. Our manufacturing backlog is future production for which we have written orders from our customers in various periods, and estimated potential revenue attributable to those orders. Some of this backlog is subject to our fulfillment of certain competitive conditions. Our reported backlog may not be converted to revenue in any particular period and actual revenue from such contracts may not equal our backlog revenues. Therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. The timing of our asset sales and related revenue recognition could cause significant differences in our quarterly results and liquidity. We may build railcars in anticipation of a customer order, or that are leased to a customer and ultimately planned to be sold to a third-party. The difference in timing of production of the railcars and the ultimate sale of such railcars is subject to risk and could cause a fluctuation in our quarterly results and liquidity. In addition, we periodically sell railcars from our own lease fleet and the timing and volume of such sales is difficult to predict. As a result, comparisons of our quarterly revenues, income and liquidity between quarterly periods within one year and between comparable periods in different years may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. A change in our product mix, a failure to design or manufacture products or technologies or achieve certification or market acceptance of new products or technologies or introduction of products by our competitors could have an adverse effect on our profitability and competitive position. We manufacture and repair a variety of railcars. The demand for specific types of these railcars and mix of refurbishment work varies from time to time. These shifts in demand could affect our margins and could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We continue to introduce new railcar products and technologies and periodically accept orders prior to receipt of railcar certification or proof of ability to manufacture a quality product that meets customer standards. We could be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new railcar products and technologies. Our inability to develop and manufacture such new products and technologies in a timely and profitable manner, to obtain certification, and achieve market acceptance or the existence of quality problems in our new products could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations and subject us to penalties, cancellation of orders and/or other damages. In addition, new technologies, changes in product mix or the introduction of new railcars and product offerings by our competitors could render our products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. We could be unable to remarket leased railcars on favorable terms upon lease termination or realize the expected residual values, which could reduce our revenue and decrease our overall return. We re-lease or sell railcars we own upon the expiration of existing lease terms. The total rental payments we receive under our operating leases do not fully amortize the acquisition costs of the leased equipment, which exposes us to risks associated with remarketing the railcars. Our ability to remarket leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including, but not limited to, market and industry conditions, cost of and demand for newer models, costs associated with the refurbishment of the railcars and interest rates. Our inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in reduced revenues and margins and decrease our overall returns. 14 The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report Table of Contents Our product and repair service warranties could expose us to potentially significant claims. We offer our customers limited warranties for many of our products and services. Accordingly, we may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future, such as multiple claims based on one defect repeated throughout our production or servicing process or claims for which the cost of repairing the defective part is highly disproportionate to the original cost of the part. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, customers seeking monetary damages, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation. If warranty claims attributable to actions of third party component manufacturers are not recoverable from such parties due to their poor financial condition or other reasons, we could be liable for warranty claims and other risks for using these materials on our railcars. A reduction in negotiated or arbitrated car hire rates could reduce future car hire revenue. A significant portion of our leasing & services revenue is derived from “car hire,” which is a fee that a railroad pays for the use of railcars owned by other railroads or third parties. Railcar owners and users have the right to negotiate car hire rates. If the railcar owner and railcar user cannot come to an agreement on a car hire rate, then either party has the right to call for arbitration, in which either the owner’s or user’s rate is selected by the arbitrator to be effective for a one-year period. Substantially all railcars in our fleet are subject to deprescription. There is a risk that car hire rates could be negotiated or arbitrated to lower levels in the future. A reduction in car hire rates could reduce future car hire revenue and adversely affect our financial results. Risks related to our operations outside of the United States could adversely impact our operating results. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to the risks associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. Political, legal, trade or economic changes or instability could limit or curtail our foreign business activities and operations. Some foreign countries in which we operate have regulatory authorities that regulate railroad safety, railcar design and railcar component part design, performance and manufacturing. If we fail to obtain and maintain certifications of our railcars and railcar parts within the various foreign countries where we operate, we may be unable to market and sell our railcars in those countries. In addition, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, more stringent rules relating to labor or the environment, adverse tax consequences and price exchange controls could limit operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products difficult. The uncertainty of the legal environment or geo-political risks in these and other areas could limit our ability to enforce our rights effectively. Any international expansion or acquisition that we undertake could amplify these risks related to operating outside of the United States. Some of our employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions at some of our operations. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot be assured that our relations with our workforce will remain positive or that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize at some of our other facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with lay-offs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of our operations or due to the difficulties of restarting our operations that have been temporarily shuttered. The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could lead to increased costs and lower profitability. Outside of the United States, we operate in Mexico, Germany and Poland, and our non-U.S. businesses conduct their operations in local currencies and other regional currencies. We also source materials worldwide. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products in foreign markets or our cost competitiveness and may adversely affect our profitability. Although we attempt to mitigate a portion of our exposure to changes in currency rates through currency rate hedge contracts and other activities, these efforts cannot fully eliminate the risks associated with the foreign currencies. In addition, some of our borrowings are in foreign currency, giving rise to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates. A material or adverse change in exchange rates could result in significant deterioration of profits or in losses for us. We have potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which could increase costs or have an adverse effect on results of operations. We are subject to extensive national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, air emissions, water discharge, solid waste and hazardous substances handling and disposal and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex and frequently change. We could incur unexpected costs, penalties and other civil and criminal liability if we fail to comply with environmental laws. We also could incur costs or liabilities related to off-site waste disposal or remediating soil or groundwater contamination at our properties. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital expenditures or changes to our operations. Environmental studies have been conducted on our owned and leased properties that indicate additional investigation and some remediation on certain properties may be necessary. Our Portland, Oregon manufacturing facility is located adjacent to the Willamette River. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified portions of the river bed, including the portion fronting our Portland, Oregon facility, as a federal “National Priority List” or “Superfund” site due to sediment contamination (the Portland Harbor Site). We and more than 80 other parties have received a “General Notice” of potential liability from the EPA relating to the Portland Harbor Site. The letter advised that we may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation (which liability may be joint and several with other potentially responsible parties) as well as for natural resource damages resulting from releases of hazardous substances to the site. At this time, ten private and public entities, including us, have signed an Administrative Order on Consent (AOC) to perform a remedial investigation/feasibility study (RI/FS) of the Portland Harbor Site under EPA oversight, and several additional entities have not signed such consent, but are nevertheless contributing money to the effort. The study is expected to be completed in 2011. In February 2008, the EPA sought information from over 200 additional entities, including other federal agencies in order to determine whether additional General Notice letters were warranted. Seventy-one parties have entered into a non-judicial mediation process to try to allocate costs associated with the Portland Harbor site. Approximately one hundred ten additional parties have signed tolling agreements related to such allocations. On April 23, 2009, we and the other AOC signatories filed suit against sixty-nine other parties due to a possible limitations period for some such claims; Arkema Inc. et al v. A & C Foundry Products, Inc.et al, US District Court, District of Oregon, Case #3:09-cv-453-PK. As of October 21, 2009, all but 12 of these parties elected to sign tolling agreements and be dismissed without prejudice. In addition, we have entered into a Voluntary Clean-Up Agreement with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality in which we agreed to conduct an investigation of whether, and to what extent, past or present operations at the Portland property may have released hazardous substances to the environment. We are also conducting groundwater remediation relating to a historical spill on the property which antedates its ownership. Because these environmental investigations are still underway, we are unable to determine the amount of ultimate liability relating to these matters. Based on the results of the pending investigations and future assessments of natural resource damages, we may be required to incur costs associated with additional phases of investigation or remedial action, and may be liable for damages to natural resources. In addition, we may be required to perform periodic maintenance dredging in order to continue to launch vessels from our launch ways on the Willamette River, in Portland, Oregon, and the river’s classification as a Superfund site could result in some limitations on future dredging and launch activities. Any of these matters could adversely affect our business and results of operations, or the value of its Portland property. 16 The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report Table of Contents We could be liable for physical damage or product liability claims that exceed our insurance coverage. The nature of our business subjects us to physical damage and product liability claims, especially in connection with the repair and manufacture of products that carry hazardous or volatile materials. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at commercially reasonable levels compared to similarly-sized heavy equipment manufacturers. However, an unusually large physical damage or product liability claim or a series of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our production process could exceed our insurance coverage or result in damage to our reputation. Shortages of skilled labor could adversely impact our operations. We depend on skilled labor in the manufacture, repair and refurbishment of railcars. Some of our facilities are located in areas where demand for skilled laborers often exceeds supply. Shortages of some types of skilled laborers such as welders could restrict our ability to maintain or increase production rates and could increase our labor costs. We depend on a third party to provide most of the labor services for our operations in Sahagun, Mexico and if such third party fails to provide the labor, it could adversely affect our operations. In Sahagun, Mexico, we depend on a third party to provide us with most of the labor services for our operations under a services agreement. This agreement has a term of three years expiring on November 30, 2011, with one three-year option to renew. All of the labor provided by the third party is subject to collective bargaining agreements, over which we have no control. If the third party fails to provide us with the services required by our agreement for any reason, including labor stoppages or strikes or a sale of facilities owned by the third party, our operations could be adversely effected. We could experience interruption of our manufacturing operations in Mexico which would adversely affect our results of operations. In Sahagun, Mexico, we lease our manufacturing facility from a third party. The lease agreement has a term of three years expiring on November 30, 2011, with one three-year option to renew. We could incur substantial expense and interruption of our manufacturing production if we were to relocate to a different location. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable alternative location or enter into a lease for a new location on favorable terms. Our relationships with our joint venture and alliance partners could be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have entered into several joint venture agreements and other alliances with other companies to increase our sourcing alternatives, reduce costs, and to produce new railcars for the North American marketplace. We may seek to expand our relationships or enter into new agreements with other companies. If our joint venture alliance partners are unable to fulfill their contractual obligations or if these relationships are otherwise not successful in the future, our manufacturing costs could increase, we could encounter production disruptions, growth opportunities could fail to materialize, or we could be required to fund such joint venture alliances in amounts significantly greater than initially anticipated, any of which could adversely affect our business. The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents We could have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that we acquire, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our acquisition strategy depends upon our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and integrate any businesses that we acquire into our existing business. The integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by causing unforeseen operating difficulties, diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations and requiring significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our business. The difficulties of integration could be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. In addition, we could be unable to retain key employees or customers of the combined businesses. We could face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operational functions of the acquired companies and we also could fail to realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are not successful in succession planning for our senior management team our business could be adversely impacted. Several key members of our senior management team are at or nearing retirement age. If we are unsuccessful in our succession planning efforts, the continuity of our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We are a defendant in several pending cases in various jurisdictions. If we are unsuccessful in resolving these claims, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, future claims that may arise relating to any pending or new matters, whether brought against us or initiated by us against third parties, could distract management’s attention from business operations and increase our legal and related costs, which could also negatively impact our business and results of operations. We could be unable to procure adequate insurance on a cost-effective basis in the future. The ability to insure our businesses, facilities and rail assets is an important aspect of our ability to manage risk. As there are only limited providers of this insurance to the railcar industry, there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available on a cost-effective basis in the future. In addition, due to recent extraordinary economic events that have significantly weakened many major insurance underwriters, we cannot assure that our insurance carriers will be able to pay current or future claims. Any failure by us to comply with regulations imposed by federal and foreign agencies could negatively affect our financial results. Our manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental, regulatory and industry authorities and by federal and foreign agencies. These organizations establish rules and regulations for the railcar industry, including construction specifications and standards for the design and manufacture of railcars; mechanical, maintenance and related standards; and railroad safety. New regulatory rulings and regulations from these entities could impact our financial results and the economic value of our assets. In addition, if we fail to comply with the requirements and regulations of these entities, we could face sanctions and penalties that could negatively affect our financial results. 18 The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report Table of Contents Our financial performance and market value could cause future write-downs of goodwill in future periods. With the adoption of Statement of Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangibles, goodwill is no longer amortized; however, we are required to perform an annual impairment review which could result in impairment write-downs to goodwill. If the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the fair value, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge. In 2009 the Company took a pre-tax goodwill write-down of $55.7 million. As of August 31, 2009, we had $137.1 million of goodwill. Our stock price can impact the results of the impairment review of goodwill. Our implementation of new enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems could result in problems that could negatively impact our business. We continue to work on the design and implementation of ERP and related systems that support substantially all of our operating and financial functions. We could experience problems in connection with such implementations, including compatibility issues, training requirements, higher than expected implementation costs and other integration challenges and delays. A significant implementation problem, if encountered, could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. Additionally, a significant problem with the implementation, integration with other systems or ongoing management of ERP and related systems could have an adverse effect on our ability to generate and interpret accurate management and financial reports and other information on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial reporting system and internal controls and adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Our governing documents contain some provisions that could prevent or make more difficult an attempt to acquire us. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as currently in effect, contain some provisions that could be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, including: • a classified board of directors, with each class containing as nearly as possible one-third of the total number of members of the board of directors and the members of each class serving for staggered three-year terms; • a vote of at least 55% of our voting securities to amend some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation; • no less than 120 days’ advance notice with respect to nominations of directors or other matters to be voted on by shareholders other than by or at the direction of the board of directors; • removal of directors only with cause; and • the calling of special meetings of stockholders only by the president, a majority of the board of directors or the holders of not less than 25% of all votes entitled to be cast on the matters to be considered at such meeting. We also maintain a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which each stockholder has received a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right per share of common stock owned. The stockholder rights plan and the other provisions discussed above could have anti-takeover effects because they may delay, defer or prevent an unsolicited acquisition proposal that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. The Oregon Control Share Act and business combination law could limit parties who acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These acts could lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a shareholder to vote their shares to elect the majority of our Board and change management. We are party to an Investor Rights Agreement with the holders of our outstanding warrants, which contains certain restrictions on acquisition of additional equity securities and on voting of outstanding shares. The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents Our stock price may continue to experience large fluctuations. Historically, the price of our common stock has at times experienced rapid and severe price fluctuations. Our stock closing price has ranged from a low of $1.91 per share to a high of $21.15 per share for the year ended August 31, 2009. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to a variety of company specific factors, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors; and • any developments that materially adversely impact investors’ or customers’ perceptions of our business prospects. In addition, warrants to purchase a total of 3.378 million shares of common stock are outstanding and, subject to certain restrictions, are exercisable at any time at the discretion of the warrant holders. The exercise price of the warrants is currently $6.00 per share. The warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that may in some circumstances increase the number of shares for which such warrants are exercisable and lower the exercise price of the warrants. If outstanding warrants are exercised, or if events were to occur that would result in such warrants becoming exercisable for more shares or at a lower exercise price, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 The Greenbrier Companies 2009 Annual Report Table of Contents 