Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- As used in this section, references to "we" or "us" or "our" refer to the Company, the Operating Partnership, and the Management Companies. The following risks apply to Home Properties, the Operating Partnership, and the Management Companies, in addition to other risks and factors set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Assimilation of a Substantial Number of New Acquisitions - -------------------------------------------------------- Since our formation, we have undertaken a strategy of aggressive growth through acquisitions. Our ability to manage our growth effectively requires that we, among other things, successfully apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio to an increased number of properties. In addition, we will be required to successfully manage the integration of a substantial number of new personnel. There can be no assurances that we will be able to integrate and manage these operations effectively or maintain or improve on their historical financial performance. Real Estate Financing Risks - --------------------------- GENERAL. We are subject to the customary risks associated with debt financing including the potential inability to refinance existing mortgage indebtedness upon maturity on favorable terms. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet its debt service obligations, the property could be foreclosed upon. This could adversely affect our cash flow and, consequently, the amount available for distributions to stockholders. NO LIMITATION ON DEBT. The Board of Directors has adopted a policy of limiting our indebtedness to approximately 55% of our total market capitalization (with the equity component of total market capitalization based on the per share net asset value published by Home Properties in its most recent quarterly earnings press release), but our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, we may incur. Accordingly, the Board of Directors could alter or eliminate its current policy on borrowing. If this policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders and an increased risk of default on our indebtedness. Our net asset value fluctuates based on a number of factors. Our bank agreements and certain agreements with holders of our preferred stock limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. EXISTING DEBT MATURITIES. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet the required payments of principal and interest. Because much of the financing is not fully self-amortizing, we anticipate that only a portion of the principal of our indebtedness will be repaid prior to maturity. So, we will need to refinance debt. Accordingly, there is a risk that we will not be successful in refinancing existing indebtedness or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing indebtedness. We aim to stagger our debt maturities with the goal of minimizing the amount of debt which must be refinanced in any year. AVAILABILITY OF FINANCING AND POSSIBLE DILUTION. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common and preferred equity. Debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, or on favorable terms or at all. If we issue additional equity securities to finance developments and acquisitions instead of incurring debt, the interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted. Real Estate Investment Risks - ---------------------------- GENERAL RISKS. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. If our communities do not generate revenues sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, Home Properties' cash flow and ability to make distributions to its stockholders will be adversely affected. A multifamily apartment community's revenues and value may be adversely affected by the general economic climates; the local economic climate; local real estate considerations (such as over supply of or reduced demand for apartments); the perception by prospective residents of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the communities or neighborhoods in which they are located and the quality of local schools and other amenities; and increased operating costs (including real estate taxes and utilities). Certain significant fixed expenses are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. OPERATING RISKS. We are dependent on rental income to pay operating expenses and to generate cash to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to attract and retain residents or if our residents are unable, due to an adverse change in the economic condition of the region or otherwise, to pay their rental obligations, our ability to make expected distributions will be adversely affected. In addition, the weather and other factors outside of our control can result in an increase in the operating expenses for which the Company is responsible. ILLIQUIDITY OF REAL ESTATE. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we have limited ability to vary our portfolio quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the prohibition in the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") on REITs holding property for sale and related regulations may affect our ability to sell properties without adversely affecting distributions to stockholders. A significant number of our properties were acquired using UPREIT Units and are subject to certain agreements, which restrict our ability to sell such properties in transactions that would create current taxable income to the former owners. COMPETITION. We plan to continue to acquire additional multifamily residential properties in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Southeast Florida regions of the United States. There are a number of multifamily developers and other real estate companies that compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition, prospective residents and land for development. Most of our properties are in developed areas where there are other properties of the same type. Competition from other properties may affect our ability to attract and retain residents, to increase rental rates and to minimize expenses of operation. Virtually all of the leases for the properties are short-term leases (generally, one year or less). REPOSITIONING STRATEGY. A key component of our strategy is to acquire properties and to reposition them for long-term growth. A variety of factors could negatively impact our ability to timely complete repositioning activities within anticipated budgets. These include delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and authorizations and increased costs of goods. Our inability to charge rents that will be sufficient to offset the effects of these delays and increase in costs may impair our profitability. UNINSURED LOSSES. Certain extraordinary losses may not be covered by our comprehensive liability, fire, extended and rental loss insurance. If an uninsured loss occurred, we could lose our investment in, and cash flow from, the affected property (but we would be required to repay any indebtedness secured by that property and related taxes and other charges). Federal Income Tax Risks - ------------------------ GENERAL. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders as long as it distributes currently at least 90% of its taxable income (excluding net capital gain). No assurance can be provided, however, that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. REQUIRED DISTRIBUTIONS AND PAYMENTS. In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we currently are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gain). In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income for that year, and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from the Operating Partnership. However, differences in timing between taxable income and cash available for distribution could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable us to meet the 90% distribution requirement (and, therefore, to maintain our REIT qualification) and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. The Operating Partnership is required to pay (or reimburse us, as its general partner, for) certain taxes and other liabilities and expenses that we incur, including any taxes that we must pay in the event we were to fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, because we are unable to retain earnings (resulting from REIT distribution requirements), we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. There can be no assurance that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would be available to meet our distribution and tax obligations. ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES OF OUR FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification is lost. The additional tax burden on us would significantly reduce the cash available for distribution by us to our stockholders. Our failure to qualify as a REIT could reduce materially the value of our common stock and would cause all our distributions to be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (although, subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction with respect to these distributions). THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP'S FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A PARTNERSHIP. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were to be successful in treating the Operating Partnership as an entity that is taxable as a corporation, we would cease to qualify as a REIT because the value of our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership would exceed 5% of our assets and because we would be considered to hold more than 10% of the voting securities of another corporation. Also, the imposition of a corporate tax on the Operating Partnership would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for distribution to its limited partners. Finally, the classification of the Operating Partnership as a corporation would cause its limited partners to recognize gain (upon the event that causes the Operating Partnership to be classified as a corporation) at least equal to their "negative capital accounts" (and possibly more, depending upon the circumstances). Taxation of Dividends - --------------------- The tax rate applicable to qualifying corporate dividends received by individuals prior to 2009 has been reduced to a maximum rate of 15%. This special tax rate is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a REIT, unless such dividends represent earnings on which the REIT itself had been taxed. As a result, dividends (other than capital gain dividends) paid by us to individual investors will generally be subject to the tax rates that are otherwise applicable to ordinary income which, currently, are as high as 35%. This law change may make an investment in our common stock comparatively less attractive relative to an investment in the share of other corporate entities which pay dividends that are not formed as REITs. Limits on Ownership - ------------------- In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of its taxable year. We have limited ownership of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock by any single stockholder to 8.0% of the aggregate value of our outstanding shares. Shares of common stock held by certain entities, such as qualified pension plans, are treated as if the beneficial owners of such entities were the holders of the common stock. These restrictions can be waived by the Board of Directors if it were satisfied, based upon the advice of tax counsel or otherwise, that such action would be in our best interests. Waivers were granted to certain institutional investors in connection with the sale of our preferred stock. Shares acquired or transferred in breach of the limitation may be redeemed by us for the lesser of the price paid or the average closing price for the ten trading days immediately preceding redemption or may be sold at our direction. A transfer of shares of common stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit will be void and the shares will automatically be converted into shares of "excess stock", which is subject to a number of limitations. Change of Control - ----------------- Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the "Articles of Incorporation"), authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to a total of 80 million shares of common stock, 10 million shares of excess stock and 10 million shares of preferred stock and to establish the rights and preferences of any shares issued. Further, under the Articles of Incorporation, the stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights. The percentage ownership limit described above, the issuance of preferred stock in the future and the absence of cumulative voting rights could have the effect of: (i) delaying or preventing a change of control of us even if a change in control were in the stockholders' interest; (ii) deterring tender offers for our common stock that may be beneficial to the stockholders; or (iii) limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block of our common stock in excess of the percentage ownership limit or otherwise to effect a change of control of us. We have various agreements which may have the effect of discouraging a change of control of us due to the costs involved. The Articles Supplementary to our Articles of Incorporation under which our outstanding Series F preferred stock were issued provide us the option of redeeming the outstanding Preferred Stock after the fifth anniversary of its issue date. Also, to assure that our management has appropriate incentives to focus on our business and Properties in the face of a change of control situation, we have adopted an executive retention plan which provides some key employees with salary, bonus and certain benefit continuation in the event of a change of control. Potential Conflicts of Interest - ------------------------------- Unlike persons acquiring common stock, certain of our executive officers and directors own a significant portion of their interest in us through Units. As a result of their status as holders of Units, those executive officers, directors and other limited partners may have interests that conflict with stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and the Operating Partnership. In particular, certain executive officers and directors may suffer different or more adverse tax consequences than us upon the sale or refinancing of some of the Properties as a result of unrealized gain attributable to those Properties. Thus, those executive officers and directors and the stockholders may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any sale or refinancing of Properties. In addition, those executive officers and directors, as limited partners of the Operating Partnership, have the right to approve certain fundamental transactions such as the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, merger or consolidation or dissolution of the Operating Partnership and certain amendments to the Operating Partnership Agreement. Shares Available for Future Sale - -------------------------------- Sales of substantial amounts of shares of Common Stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. The Operating Partnership has issued approximately 16.7 million UPREIT Units through December 31, 2005, to persons other than us or the Trust, which may be exchanged on a one-for-one basis for shares of Common Stock under certain circumstances. We have issued and outstanding Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. In addition, Home Properties has granted options to purchase shares of stock to certain directors, officers and employees of Home Properties, of which, as of December 31, 2005, 2,662,581 options remained outstanding and unexercised. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- None. 