Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following factors and other considerations should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. 43 Changes in Interest Rates May Significantly Impact Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Like most financial institutions, our results of operations depend to a large degree on our net interest income. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. As a general matter, we seek to manage our business to limit our overall exposure to interest rate fluctuations. However, fluctuations in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in a rising interest rate environment, a borrower’s ability to repay adjustable rate mortgages can be negatively a ffected as payments increase at repricing dates. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. In a declining interest rate environment, the number of loan prepayments and loan refinancing may increase, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government agency and corporate securities may also adversely affect yield in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayments and calls may adversely affect the yield of our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed and other securities as we reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. However, we typically receive additional loan fees when existing loans are refinanced, which partially offset the reduced yield on our loan portfolio resulting from prepayments. In periods of low interest rates, our level of core deposits also may decline if depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investments not offered by us, which in turn may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent alternative funding sources are utilized. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to extend the average lives of lower yielding fixed rate mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, which could adversely affect net interest income. In addition, depositors tend to open longer term, higher costing certificate of deposit accounts which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Additionally, adjustable rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount the interest rate can increase or decrease at repricing dates. Significant increases in prevailing interest rates may significantly affect demand for loans and the value of bank collateral. See “— Local Economic Conditions.& #8221; Our Lending Activities Involve Risks that May Be Exacerbated Depending on the Mix of Loan Types Multi-family residential and one-to-four family mixed use property mortgage loans and commercial business loans (the increased origination of which is part of management’s strategy), and commercial real estate mortgage loans and construction loans, are generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans and typically involve higher principal amounts per loan. Repayment of multi-family residential, commercial real estate and one-to-four family mixed-use property mortgage loans generally is dependent, in large part, upon sufficient income from the property to cover operating expenses and debt service. Repayment of commercial business loans is contingent on the successful operation of the related business. Repayment of construction loans is continge nt upon the successful completion and operation of the project. Changes in local economic conditions and government regulations, which are outside the control of the borrower or lender, also could affect the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of the affected properties. We continually review the composition of our mortgage loan portfolio to manage the risk in the portfolio. In addition, from time-to-time, we have originated one-to-four family residential mortgage loans without verifying the borrower’s level of income. These loans involve a higher degree of risk as compared to our other fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. These risks are mitigated by our policy to generally limit the amount of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans to 80% of the appraised value or sale price, whichever is less, as well as charging a higher interest rate than when the borrower’s income is verified. These loans are not as readily saleable in the secondary market as our other fully underwritten loans, either as whole loans or when pooled or securitized. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategies with respect to these higher-yielding loans. In assessing our future earnings prospects, investors should consider, among other things, our level of origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans (including loans originated without verifying the borrowers income), our emphasis on multi-family residential, commercial real estate and one-to-four family mixed-use property mortgage loans, and commercial business and construction loans, and the greater risks associated with such loans. See “Business — Lending Activities” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. The Markets in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive We face intense and increasing competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors to varying degrees. Particularly intense competition exists for deposits and in all of the lending activities we emphasize. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial 44 banks, other savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Management anticipates that competition for mortgage loans will continue to increase in the future. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from other savings banks, commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. Consolidation in the banking industry and the lifting of interstate banking and branching restrictions have made it more difficult for smaller, community-oriented banks, such as us, to compete effectively with large, national, regional and sup er-regional banking institutions. We launched an internet branch, “iGObanking.com®” a division of the Savings Bank, to provide us with access to markets outside our geographic locations. The internet banking arena also has many larger financial institutions which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than we do. Notwithstanding the intense competition, we have been successful in increasing our loan portfolios and deposit base. However, no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to increase our loan portfolios and deposit base, as contemplated by management’s current business strategy. Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in National and/or Local Economic Conditions Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. The national and regional economies were generally considered to be in a recession from December 2007 through the middle of 2009. This resulted in increased unemployment and declining property values, although the property value declines in the New York metropolitan area have not been as great as many other areas of the country. While the national and regional economies showed signs of improvement during the second half of 2009, unemployment has remained at elevated levels. The housing market in the United States continued to see a significant slowdown during 2009, and foreclosures of single family homes rose to levels not seen in the prior five years. These economic conditions can result in borrowers defaulting on their loans, or withdrawing their funds on deposit at the Banks to meet their financial obligations. While we have seen an increase in deposits, we have also seen a significant increase in delinquent loans, resulting in an increase in our provision for loan losses in 2009. We cannot predict the effect of these economic conditions on our financial condition or operating results. . A decline in the local economy, national economy or metropolitan area real estate market could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including through decreased demand for loans or increased competition for good loans, increased non-performing loans and loan losses and resulting additional provisions for loan losses and for losses on real estate owned. Although management believes that the current allowance for loan losses is adequate in light of current economic conditions, many factors could require additions to the allowance for loan losses in future periods above those currently maintained. These factors include: (1) adverse changes in economic conditions and changes in interest rates that may affect the ability of borrowers to make payments on loans, (2) changes in the financial capacity of individual borrowers, (3) changes in the local real estate market and the value of our loan collateral, and (4) future review and evaluation of our loan portfolio, internally or by regulators. The amount of the allowance for loan losses at any time represents good faith estimates that are susceptible to significant changes due to changes in appraisal values of collateral, national and regional economic conditions, prevailing interest rates and other factors. See “Business — General — Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. These same factors have caused delinquencies to increase for the mortgages which are the collateral for the mortgage-backed securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Combining the increased delinquencies with liquidity problems in the market has resulted in a decline in the market value of our investments in mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that the decline in the market value of these investments will not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge being recorded in our financial statements. Changes in Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Business From time to time, legislation is enacted or regulations are promulgated that have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks and other financial institutions are frequently made in Congress, in the New York legislature and before various bank regulatory agencies. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood of any major changes or the impact such changes might have on us. For a discussion of regulations affecting us, see “Business —Regulation” and “Business—Federal, State and Local Taxation” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. 45 Current Conditions in, and Regulation of, the Banking Industry May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations Financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and may be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. Significant new laws or regulations or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws or regulations, including those with respect to federal and state taxation, may cause our results of operations to differ materially. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, have significantly increased and could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. During 2008 and 2009, there has been unprecedented government intervention in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. In October 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) into law, which granted the U.S. Treasury the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets (including mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments) from financial institutions to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets (although in November 2008, the U.S. Treasury stated that the government would not use any of the $700 billion that Congress granted under the EESA to purchase troubled assets). Shortly thereafter, the U.S. Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Fed eral Reserve System (“FRB”) and the FDIC announced additional steps aimed at stabilizing the financial markets. First, the U.S. Treasury announced the CPP, a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program under which qualifying financial institutions may sell preferred shares to the Treasury (to be funded from the $700 billion authorized for troubled asset purchases). Second, the FDIC announced that its Board of Directors, under the authority to prevent “systemic risk” in the U.S. banking system, approved the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”), which permits the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions under the Debt Guarantee Program and (2) fully insure non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of dollar amount, under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Third, the FRB announced further details of its Commercial Pa per Funding Facility (“CPFF”), which provides a broad backstop for the commercial paper market. We participated in the CPP, and are currently participating in the TLGP, but not the CPFF. Participation in the TLGP may adversely affect our results of operations as a result of higher FDIC assessments payable by participants in the TLGP. In February 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced the terms and conditions for the Capital Assistance Program (“CAP”). The purpose of the CAP is to restore confidence throughout the financial system that the nation’s largest banking institutions have a sufficient capital cushion against larger than expected future losses and to support lending to creditworthy borrowers. The CAP consists of two core elements. The first is a forward-looking capital assessment to determine whether any of the major U.S. banking organizations need to establish an additional capital buffer during this period of heightened uncertainty. The second is access for qualifying financial institutions to contingent common equity provided by the U.S. government as a bridge to private capital in the future. We are no t participating in the CAP. As a complement to the CAP, the FRB and other U.S. federal banking regulators were engaged in a comprehensive capital assessment exercise, the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”), sometimes referred to as “stress testing,” with each of the 19 largest U.S. bank holding companies. The federal banking regulators measured how much of an additional capital buffer, if any, each institution would need to establish to ensure that it would have sufficient capital to comfortably exceed minimum regulatory requirements at year-end 2010. As a result of SCAP, many of the 19 institutions underwent capital raising or restructuring transactions to improve their capital base. In March 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced guidelines for the “Making Home Affordable” loan modification program. Among other things, this program intends for the U.S. Treasury to partner with financial institutions and investors to reduce certain homeowners’ monthly mortgage payments and provides mortgage holders and servicers financial incentives to modify existing first mortgages of certain qualifying homeowners. Under this program, the U.S. Treasury also shares in certain costs associated with reductions in monthly payment amounts. We have not participated in the “Making Home Affordable” loan modification program. If we do participate at some point in the future, among other things, modification of mortgage loans that we hold may result in lower payment obligations for borrowers, which could lead us to experience reduced cash flow. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the foregoing programs or any other governmental program that may be introduced or implemented in the future will have on the financial markets and the economy. A continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional 46 requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the U.S. Treasury or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions May Increase the Costs to or Discourage an Acquirer On September 5, 2006, the Board of Directors renewed our Stockholder Rights Plan (the “Rights Plan”), which was originally adopted on and had been in place since September 17, 1996 and had been scheduled to expire on September 30, 2006. The Rights Plan was designed to preserve long-term values and protect stockholders against inadequate offers and other unfair tactics to acquire control of us. Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder of record at the close of business on September 30, 2006 received a dividend distribution of one right to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock at a price of $65. The rights will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer whic h, if consummated, would result in that person or group owning at least 15% of the Common Stock (the “acquiring person or group”). In such case, all stockholders other than the acquiring person or group will be entitled to purchase, by paying the $65 exercise price, Common Stock (or a common stock equivalent) with a value of twice the exercise price. In addition, at any time after such event, and prior to the acquisition by any person or group of 50% or more of the Common Stock, the Board of Directors may, at its option, require each outstanding right (other than rights held by the acquiring person or group) to be exchanged for one share of Common Stock (or one common stock equivalent). If a person or group becomes an acquiring person and we are acquired in a merger or other business combination or sell more than 50% of our assets or earning power, each right will entitle all other holders to purchase, by payment of $65 exercise price, common stock of the acquirin g company with a value of twice the exercise price. The renewed rights plan expires on September 30, 2016. The Rights Plan, as well as certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the Savings Bank’s federal stock charter and bylaws, certain federal regulations and provisions of Delaware corporation law, and certain provisions of remuneration plans and agreements applicable to employees and officers of the Bank may have anti-takeover effects by discouraging potential proxy contests and other takeover attempts, particularly those which have not been negotiated with the Board of Directors. The Rights Plan and those other provisions, as well as applicable regulatory restrictions, may also prevent or inhibit the acquisition of a controlling position in the Common Stock and may prevent or inhibit takeover attempts that certain stockholders may deem to be in their or other stockholders’ interest or in our interest, or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Rights Plan and those other provisions may also increase the cost of, and thus discourage, any such future acquisition or attempted acquisition, and would render the removal of the current Board of Directors or management of the Company more difficult. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Implement Our Commercial Business Banking Initiative Our strategy includes a transition to a more “commercial-like” banking institution. We have developed a complement of deposit, loan and cash management products to support this initiative, and intend to expand these product offerings. A business banking unit builds relationships in order to obtain lower-costing deposits, generate fee income, and originate commercial business loans. The success of this initiative is dependent on developing additional product offerings, and building relationships to obtain the deposits and loans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy with respect to this initiative. The FDIC’s Recently Adopted Restoration Plan and the Related Increased Assessment Rate Schedule May Have a Material Effect on Our Results of Operations The FDIC adopted a restoration plan that raised the deposit insurance assessment rate schedule, uniformly across all four risk categories into which the FDIC assigns insured institutions, by seven basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning on January 1, 2009. Beginning with the second quarter of 2009, the initial base assessment rates were increased further depending on an institution’s risk category, with adjustments resulting in increased assessment rates for institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The FDIC adopted a final rule in May 2009, imposing a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The final rule also allo wed the FDIC to impose possible additional special assessments of up to five basis points thereafter to maintain public confidence in the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). Additionally, on September 29, 2009, the Board of Directors of the FDIC proposed to require institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which was collected on December 31, 2009. The FDIC Board also voted to adopt a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011, and to extend the restoration period from seven to eight years. There is no guarantee that the higher premiums and special assessments described above will be sufficient 47 for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, which may necessitate further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. Any such future assessments or increases could have a further material impact on our results of operations. The Potential Adoption of Significant Aspects of the Obama Administration Reform Plan May Have a Material Effect on Our Operations In June 2009, the Obama Administration released a white paper setting forth its comprehensive plan for financial regulatory reform (the “Reform Plan”). The Reform Plan contains a number of recommendations and proposals that are intended to address perceived weaknesses in the U.S. financial regulatory system and prevent future economic and financial crises. Most significantly for us, the Reform Plan contains proposals eliminating the federal thrift charter, which would result in Flushing Savings Bank, FSB becoming a national bank, Flushing Financial Corporation becoming a bank holding company subject to consolidated capital requirements and Bank Holding Company Act activity limitations and potential significant erosion of federal preemption of state law. Legislation has been introduced in Congress to implement the Reform Plan. This legislation is in an early stage of consideration in Congress, and at this point in time we cannot determine which provisions of the Reform Plan will result in final legislation. If the more significant provisions of the Reform Plan become law, our operations could be significantly affected. We May Need to Recognize Other-Than-Temporary Impairment Charges in the Future We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary. However, we have recorded other-than-temporary impairment charg es on some securities in our portfolio. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income. We continue to monitor the fair value of our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing other-than-temporary impairment evaluation process. There can be no assurance that we will not need to recognize other-than-temporary impairment charges related to securities in the future. We May Not Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There Can Be No Assurance That The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act Of 2008 and Other Recently Enacted Government Programs Will Help Stabilize The U.S. Financial System There are no assurances as to what impact EESA, the Stimulus Act, and similar programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of EESA, the Stimulus Act and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. EESA, the Stimulus Act and similar programs are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Goodwill Recorded as a Result of Acquisitions Could Become Impaired, Negatively Impacting Our Earnings and Capital Goodwill is presumed to have an indefinite life and is tested annually, or when certain conditions are met, for impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than the goodwill amount, no further evaluation is required and no impairment is recorded. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the goodwill amount, further evaluation would be required to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the goodwill amount and determine if a write down is required. At December 31, 2009, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $16.1 million. Declines in the fair value of 48 the reporting unit may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material affect on our earnings and capital. We May Not Fully Realize the Expected Benefit of Our Deferred Tax Assets At December 31, 2009, we have a deferred tax asset of $23.2 million. This represents the anticipated federal, state and local tax benefits expected to be realized in future years upon the utilization of the underlying tax attributes comprising this balance. In order to use the future benefit of these deferred tax assets, we will need to report taxable income for federal, state and local tax purposes. Although we have reported taxable income for federal, state, and local tax purposes in each of the past three years, there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 