Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risk factors that we believe are material to our investors. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions.Risks Related to the MergerThere may be unexpected delays in the completion of the Merger, or the Merger may not be completed at all. The Merger is currently expected to close during the first half of 2016, assuming that all of the conditions in the Merger Agreement are satisfied or waived. The Merger Agreement provides that either our company or the Parent may terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger has not occurred by June 30, 2016. Certain events may delay the completion of the Merger or result in a termination of the Merger Agreement. Some of these events are outside the control of either party. In particular, completion of the Merger requires the affirmative vote of a majority of our outstanding common stock as of the record date for the special meeting of stockholders. If the required vote is not obtained at a special meeting (including any adjournment or postponement thereof) at which the Merger has been voted upon, either we or the Parent may terminate the Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that our stockholders will vote affirmatively at any special meeting to approve the Merger. Parent has represented in the Merger Agreement that it will have sufficient cash at the Effective Time, that when combined with debt financing Parent is obtaining concurrently, for which it has received a commitment that is subject to conditions, will be sufficient to pay the cash Merger Consideration, and any and all amounts required to be paid in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Merger, any related fees and expenses and the repayment or refinancing of certain of our indebtedness.We may incur significant additional costs in connection with any delay in completing the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement, in addition to significant transaction costs, including legal, financial advisory, accounting, and other costs we have already incurred. We can neither assure you that the conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied or waived or that any adverse change, effect, event, circumstance, occurrence or state of facts that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement, including but not limited to Parent's failure to consummate the necessary financing arrangements to ensure that it will have sufficient cash at the Effective Time, will not occur, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether or when the Merger will be completed.Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the value of our common stock and the future value of our business and financial results. If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business could be adversely affected and we will be subject to a variety of risks associated with the failure to complete the Merger, including but not limited to:•being required, under certain circumstances, to pay to Parent a termination fee of $30,000 and reimburse Parent's transaction expenses up to an amount equal to $5,000;•incurrence of substantial costs relating to the proposed Merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and mailing fees; and•diversion of resources and the focus of our management from operational matters and other strategic opportunities while working to implement the Merger.If the Merger is not completed, these risks could negatively impact the value of our common stock, the future value of our business, and our financial results.Moreover, if the Merger is not completed, we may consider other strategic alternatives, which are subject to other risks and uncertainties.The pendency of the Merger could adversely affect our business and operations. In connection with the pending Merger, some of our tenants or vendors may delay or defer decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings, cash flows and expenses regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Similarly, employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the Merger. We also may experience negative impacts on our relationships with our joint venture partners and lenders, some of which have certain rights, including consent rights, in connection with a change of control transactions, such as the Merger. In addition, due to operating covenants in the Merger Agreement, we may be unable, during the pendency of the Merger, to pursue certain strategic transactions, undertake certain significant capital 8Table of Contentsprojects, undertake certain significant financing transactions and otherwise pursue other actions that are not in the ordinary course of business, even if such actions could prove beneficial.An adverse judgment in a complaint challenging the Merger may prevent the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected time-frame. Our company, members of our board of directors, the Parent Parties and Merger Sub have been named as defendants in three, separate complaints challenging the Merger and seeking, among other things, to enjoin the completion of the Merger. Stockholders may file additional complaints challenging the Merger, which may name us or our board of directors as defendants. We cannot assure you as to the outcome of such complaints, including the amount of costs associated with defending these claims or any other liabilities that may be incurred in connection with the litigation of these claims. If any plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the parties from completing the Merger on the agreed-upon terms, such an injunction may delay the completion of the Merger in the expected time-frame, or may prevent the Merger from being completed altogether. Whether or not any plaintiff’s claim is successful, this type of litigation may result in significant costs, and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer of our company or could result in any competing acquisition proposal being at a lower price than it might otherwise be. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, restrict our ability to solicit, initiate, knowingly encourage or facilitate any third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of our company. With respect to any bona fide third-party acquisition proposal, we generally have an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the Merger Agreement in response to such proposal before our board of directors, or committee thereof, and may withdraw or modify its recommendation to our shareholders in response to such acquisition proposal. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a substantial termination fee and/or expense reimbursement to Parent. These provisions could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of our company from considering or proposing a competing acquisition, even if the potential competing acquirer was prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash value than that value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee and expense reimbursement that may become payable in certain circumstances under the Merger Agreement.If the Merger is completed, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange prior to being redeemed pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and an active trading market for our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will not be maintained during that period. The Merger Agreement provides that Parent will cause the Surviving Entity to exercise its special optional redemption right with respect to our issued and outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock within 15 days after the closing of the Merger at $25.00 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends, if any, up to, but not including, the redemption date. Additionally, it is a condition to closing under the Merger Agreement that Parent certify that it has or will have available all amounts necessary to consummate the redemption of all of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. Although notice of the redemption must be provided within 15 days after the closing of the Merger, the actual redemption of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, pursuant to their terms, may take place at any time within 120 days after the date the Merger is completed. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to when the redemption pursuant to the Merger Agreement will occur, if at all.If the Merger is completed, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange prior to the date they are likely to be redeemed, and we cannot assure you that there will be an active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock following their delisting. If there is no active trading market the market price and liquidity of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock may be adversely affected. In that case, holders of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock may not be able to sell their shares at a particular time or at a favorable price.Real Estate Risks Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of your shares, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the income generated by our properties:9Table of Contents •downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate;•competition from other retail properties and other retail channels;•local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for retail properties;•changes in interest rates and availability of financing;•vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space;•increased operating costs, including, but not limited to, insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes, and heightened security costs;•decreased tenant recovery income as a result of decreased occupancy;•civil disturbances, natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and•declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants. Our retail tenants face competition from numerous retail channels, which may reduce our profitability and ability to pay distributions. Retailers at our properties face continued competition from internet shopping, discount or value retailers, factory outlet centers, wholesale clubs, mail order catalogs and operators and television shopping networks. Such competition could adversely affect our tenants and, consequently, our revenues and funds available for distribution.Tenants may vacate spaces at the end of their leases or in breach of their leases, fail to pay their rent, declare bankruptcy, become involved in transformational corporate transactions, or seek to restructure their leases. We derive substantially all of our revenue from leasing space at our investment properties. Thus, our results may be negatively affected by the failure of tenants to pay rent when due. We may experience substantial delays and expense enforcing rights against tenants who do not pay their rent or who seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. Even if a tenant does not seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, the tenant may from time to time experience a downturn in its business which may weaken its financial condition and its ability to make rental payments when due, leading the tenant to seek to end, or revise, its lease. Tenants, particularly tenants that are branches of national corporations, may also become involved in transformational corporate transactions, such as mergers and acquisitions, which could also lead them to seek to end, or revise, their leases. Loss of revenues from significant tenants could reduce distributions to preferred and common stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as AB Acquisitions LLC (Jewel/Dominick's), Kroger and TJX Companies, Inc., which are the three largest anchor tenants in our consolidated portfolio and accounted for 4.2%, 4.2% and 3.5%, respectively of our consolidated annualized base rent for the year ended December 31, 2015. Vacated anchor space can reduce rental revenues generated by other spaces in the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. An anchor may vacate, but continue to pay rent for the balance of the term, which could hinder our efforts to re-tenant that space. If a significant tenant vacates a property, then other tenants at the property may be entitled to terminate their leases or reduce the amount of their rental obligations. The loss of a significant number of the locations of these anchor tenants, or their failure to pay rent when due, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. Leases on approximately 4% of total leased square feet in our consolidated portfolio and approximately 3% in our unconsolidated portfolio expire during 2016. As leases expire, we may not be able to renew or re-lease space at rates comparable to, or better than, the rates contained in the expiring leases, or at all. Leases on approximately 390,000 square feet, or approximately 4% of total leasable square feet of approximately 10,316,000 in our consolidated portfolio, will expire prior to December 31, 2016. Leases on approximately 125,000 square feet, or approximately 3% of total leasable square feet of approximately 5,071,000 in our unconsolidated portfolio, will expire prior to December 31, 2016. If we fail to renew or re-lease space at rates that are at least comparable to the rates on expiring leases, revenues at the impacted properties will decline. Further, we may have to spend significant sums of money to renew or re-lease space covered by expiring leases. We compete with numerous other parties or entities for real estate and tenants. We compete with numerous other persons or entities seeking to buy real estate assets, or to attract tenants to properties we already own, including REITs or other real estate operating companies. These persons or entities may have greater experience and financial strength. There is no assurance that 10Table of Contentswe will be able to acquire additional real estate assets or attract tenants on favorable terms, if at all. For example, our competitors may be willing to purchase properties at prices that result in yields below what we believe is our minimum required yield or may offer space at properties that compete with ours at rental rates below our existing rates, causing us to lose existing or potential tenants and pressuring us to reduce our rental rates to retain existing tenants or convince new tenants to lease space at our properties. Property taxes may increase. We are required to pay taxes based on the assessed value of our investment properties determined by various taxing authorities such as state or local governments. These taxing authorities may increase the tax rate imposed on a property or may reassess property value, either of which would increase the amount of taxes due on that property. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: •we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all;•acquired properties may fail to perform as expected;•the actual costs of repositioning and redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates;•we are seeking to expand our market area and may acquire properties in areas where we do not have substantial experience in, or knowledge of, the market and may lack business relationships and may be unfamiliar with local governmental and permitting procedures; and•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations. Properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown liabilities that affect the value and profitability of these properties. Properties that we own or may acquire may expose us to liabilities that are unknown at the time we acquire such properties, which could affect the value of and revenue generated by the property. Unknown liabilities might include: •liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;•claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to our acquisition of such properties (that had not been asserted or threatened prior to our acquisition); and•liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to quickly vary our portfolio. Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code restricts REIT's ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on terms favorable to us within a time frame that we would need to avoid losses in the value of properties in our portfolio. Market disruptions may adversely affect the value of our investment properties. Market volatility has exerted, and may in the future exert downward pressure on the value of certain of our investment properties and our unconsolidated joint ventures. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded approximately $10,558, $222 and $13,235, respectively of impairment charges related to certain consolidated properties and investments in certain unconsolidated joint ventures. The investment property impairment charges were required because we did not expect to recover the carrying value through future cash flows, including sales proceeds. We also recorded approximately $10,468 in impairment losses to record our investment in certain unconsolidated joint ventures at their fair values, which is included in the amount above for the year ended December 31, 2013. Similarly, during the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded approximately $692, equal to our pro rata share of impairment charges on certain unconsolidated development joint venture projects, to reflect the properties at fair value. No impairment adjustments to unconsolidated investments or unconsolidated joint venture properties were recorded or required during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Impairment charges reflect declines in value that may be important and there is no assurance we will be able to recover any of these charges upon sales of the impacted properties.11Table of ContentsInvestment Risks Indebtedness that we incur may adversely impact our liquidity and operating flexibility and may impact our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and distributions on our common stock. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $807,987 in face value of indebtedness, $392,987 of which was secured by mortgages on certain of our investment properties. We may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could further adversely impact our financial position and operating flexibility and limit our cash available to pay dividends or make distributions. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds remaining to pay dividends or make distributions on our preferred and common stock. Increases in our borrowing and the resulting increase in our leverage could affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to comply with our financial covenants governing our indebtedness.If we pay distributions that exceed our cash flow from operations, we will have less funds available for other purposes and the amount of distributions may not be sustainable. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we paid distributions totaling approximately $15,888 and $57,266 to our preferred and common stockholders, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $97,352. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we paid distributions totaling approximately $10,077 and $56,955 to our preferred and common stockholders, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $82,465. To the extent that net cash provided by operating activities declines, we may be forced to consider reducing our distributions or the amount that we pay in cash in order to preserve a cushion between the amount of cash distributions paid and net cash provided by operating activities. To the extent that we pay cash distributions exceeding net cash provided by operating activities, the amount of our distribution payments may not be sustainable or we may use funds generated by financing or investing activities which could further reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes including acquiring new investment properties, funding capital expenditures on existing investment properties, funding cash requirements for our various joint ventures or repaying debt. If these other requirements cannot be reduced, we will likely be forced to reduce the amount of our cash distributions. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay distributions at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay distributions on our shares of common stock at historical rates or to increase the distribution amount and our ability to pay dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following:•our financial condition and results of future operations;•the performance of lease terms by tenants;•the terms of our loan covenants; and•our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates.Failure to maintain or increase the amount of distributions we pay on our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common and preferred stock. Further, payment of dividends on our shares of common stock is subject to payment in full of the dividends on our shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. Our shareholders have experienced dilution as a result of our stock offerings and they may experience further dilution if we issue additional stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, including under our dividend reinvestment plan (which was suspended in connection with our entry into the Merger Agreement) or our equity award plans, may have a dilutive effect on our earnings and funds from operations per share and will reduce the percentage of that class of stock outstanding owned by investors who do not participate in these issuances. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of future issuances of our stock and the value of our properties, our existing shareholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our preferred and common stock. The trading price of our shares of preferred or common stock, like other publicly traded equity securities, depends on various market conditions that may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that could affect the market price of our preferred and common stock are the following: 12Table of Contents•the extent of investor interest in our securities;•the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;•material economic concerns;•changes in tax laws;•changes in interest rates;•our financial performance; and•general stock and bond market conditions.Uncertainty regarding the Merger and the likely timing of its completion may also impact the trading price of our shares of preferred or common stock. Our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock and our preferred stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than its liquidation value per share. If, among other things, our future earnings or cash distributions are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our preferred and common stock will decline. Our objectives may conflict with those of our joint venture partners. We own certain of our investment properties, through joint ventures with third parties. In some cases, we control the joint venture and in some cases we are a minority partner. Investments in joint ventures involve risks that are not otherwise present with properties which we own entirely. For example, a joint venture partner may file for bankruptcy protection or may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our goals or interests. Further, although we may own a controlling interest in a joint venture and may have authority over major decisions such as the sale or refinancing of investment properties, we may have fiduciary duties to the joint venture partners or the joint venture itself that may cause, or require, us to take or refrain from taking actions that we would otherwise take if we owned the investment properties outright. Certain joint venture commitments require us to invest cash in non-operating property under development and in properties that do not necessarily meet our investment criteria but which are offered for syndication through our joint venture with IPCC. In some cases, capital has been committed for periods longer than expected, for example, when development or syndication takes longer than anticipated thus impacting our liquidity and capital resources.Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our common shares and operations. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for these key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect the value of our common shares and results of operations.We have a high concentration of properties in the Chicago and the Minneapolis-St. Paul MSA's, and adverse economic and other developments in that area could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2015, approximately fifty-three percent of our total retail portfolio (including consolidated and unconsolidated properties, but excluding properties owned through our joint venture with IPCC) GLA was located in the Chicago, Illinois MSA, with our second largest market concentration being approximately seventeen percent in the Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota MSA. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse economic and other developments in these areas, including increased unemployment, industry slowdowns, business layoffs or downsizing, relocations of businesses, decreased consumer confidence, changes in demographics, increases in real estate and other taxes, increased regulation, and natural disasters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Certain provisions of Maryland law or our charter or bylaws or opposition from large stockholders could delay, defer or prevent a takeover or change in our control that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control. Such an acquisition or change of control could provide you with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of your shares. In some cases, such provisions may have the effect of permitting us and our board of directors to negotiate a change-in-control transaction on terms most favorable to us and our stockholders, but in other cases they may have the effect of delaying such a transaction or preventing it from happening at all. These MGCL provisions include: •“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” for certain periods. An “interested stockholder” is generally any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the 13Table of Contentstwo-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. Business combinations with an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After that period, the MGCL imposes two super-majority voting requirements on such combinations, and •“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights unless holders of two-thirds of our voting stock (excluding interested shares) consent. “Control shares” are shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors. A “control share acquisition” is the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares” from a party other than the issuer. We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL by means of a provision in our bylaws. However, we may opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future by amending our bylaws, which our board of directors can do without stockholder approval. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that also may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be beneficial to stockholders. In an effort to protect our ability to qualify as a REIT, our charter generally provides that no single person or group of persons (an entity is considered a person) may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock (unless permitted by the board). Although the board may waive the application of these provisions to certain persons, they are not obligated to do so. This 9.8% ownership limit and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent or discourage a third party from making a tender offer or other business combination proposal such as a merger that might have been beneficial to our stockholders.Daniel L. Goodwin is one of our directors and beneficially owns, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, approximately 12.6% of our common stock both individually and through The Inland Group, Inc. (“TIGI”). Mr. Goodwin is one of the founders of TIGI and owns a controlling interest in that entity. We have engaged in certain transactions with affiliates of TIGI. See the “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions” section in our annual meeting proxy statement and Note 16, “Transactions with Related Parties” to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details regarding certain of these transactions. Mr. Goodwin and certain of his affiliates have entered into a voting agreement to vote all of the shares of our common stock beneficially owned by them in favor of approval of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Without the support of our significant stockholders, such as Mr. Goodwin and TIGI, change of control transactions, such as mergers, sales of assets and business combinations that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for common shares may be more difficult to consummate, and this difficulty may discourage third parties from approaching us to propose such transactions. The interests of our significant stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders, and those significant stockholders may vote their shares accordingly. Financing Risks We often need to borrow money to finance our business. Our ability to internally fund operating or capital needs is limited because we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders to qualify as a REIT. Consequently, we may have to borrow money to fund operating or capital needs or to satisfy the distribution requirements, imposed by the Code, to maintain status as a REIT. Borrowing money exposes us to various risks. For example, our investment properties may not generate enough cash to pay the principal and interest obligations on loans or we may violate a loan covenant that results in the lender accelerating the maturity date of a loan. As of December 31, 2015, we had borrowings totaling approximately $807,987 in face value of consolidated debt. Approximately $392,987 of this debt is secured by mortgages on certain of our investment properties and is non-recourse to us. The remaining $415,000 is comprised of unsecured debt reflecting draws on our line of credit facility and borrowings under our term loans. If we fail to make timely payments on our debt, including those cases where a lender has accelerated the maturity date due to a violation of a loan covenant, the lenders could foreclose on the investment properties securing the loan and we could lose our entire investment on any foreclosed properties. Once a loan becomes due, we must either pay the remaining balance or borrow additional money to pay off the maturing loan. We may not, however, be able to obtain a new loan, or the terms of the new loan, such as the interest rate or payment schedule, may not be as favorable as the terms of the maturing loan. Thus, we may be forced to sell a property at an unfavorable price to pay off the maturing loan or agree to less favorable loan terms. In addition, we may have limited availability under our line of credit facility which may reduce our ability to borrow funds.14Table of Contents A total of approximately $115,161 and $47,067 of our consolidated indebtedness, including required monthly principal amortization, with weighted average interest rates on the maturing debt of 5.02% and 5.05%, respectively, matures on or before December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. We intend to repay this debt using available cash, by borrowing amounts under our unsecured line of credit facility or by refinancing the maturing debt, or some combination of all these. There is no assurance we will be able to do so and we may incur significantly higher borrowing costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Included in the debt maturing in 2016 are two mortgage loans, with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of approximately $90,247, secured by Algonquin Commons. These loans have matured and the property is currently subject to foreclosure litigation. As of December 31, 2015, we owed approximately $435,840, or 54% of our total outstanding consolidated debt, on indebtedness that bore interest at variable rates with a weighted average of 2.04% per annum. These rates are reset each month. A 1.0% annualized increase in these variable rates would have increased our interest expense by approximately $4,358 for the year ended December 31, 2015. We may borrow additional amounts that bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, the amount of interest that we would be required to pay on these borrowings will also increase. Additionally, if lending requirements become stricter, we may find it difficult to encumber properties with terms similar to our current loan terms. This could result in a decrease in the number of properties we are able to purchase or principal and/or interest payments higher than recent historical levels. Higher interest payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and would result in a decrease in the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our common stock. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and reduce cash available for distributions and other uses. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $807,987 in total face value of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis (excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt). Additionally, there was a total face value of approximately $421,081 of outstanding debt incurred by our unconsolidated joint ventures, of which our pro rata share was approximately $225,563. Debt to total market capitalization ratio, which measures total debt as a percentage of the aggregate of total debt plus the market value of outstanding equity securities, is often used by analysts to gauge leverage for a REIT. Our debt to total market capitalization ratio was approximately 38.7%, excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt, and 44.7%, including our pro rata share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, as of December 31, 2015. This ratio will increase with declines in our stock price, which closed at $10.62 on December 31, 2015, or with increases in our borrowing, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our stock. In addition, our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. In addition, a greater amount of debt relative to our peer group could have a negative effect on our stock price. Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to borrow additional monies secured by the property or to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. Covenants on our unsecured line of credit facility also limit our ability to incur indebtedness above certain levels and require us to satisfy certain conditions before borrowing, such as maintaining certain total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, among others. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan unless we are able to repay the loan. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement, and we may then be required to repay this debt. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient resources to repay this debt. To hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we may use derivative financial instruments that may be costly and ineffective and may reduce the overall returns on your investment. From time to time we have used, and may in the future use, derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates on loans secured by our assets. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy.To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk, basis risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its 15Table of Contentsobligations under, the derivative contract. We do not believe the risk of counterparty nonperformance is material due to the current economic conditions, but there can be no assurance it will not become material in the future.A subsidiary of ours stopped making payments on the debt encumbering Algonquin Commons and is defending a resulting lawsuit that seeks, among other things, to enforce its partial guarantee of the loan; if our subsidiary is required to perform under the partial guarantee, paying the guarantee could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations for the period and the year in which the payment would be made. In June 2012, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours ceased paying the monthly debt service on the two mortgage loans secured by both phases of the investment property known as Algonquin Commons, because the property was not generating sufficient cash flow to resume paying both principal and interest payments on the outstanding debt. The total outstanding principal balance of the debt on both phases of the property is $90,247, of which $71,647 is non-recourse and approximately $18,600, for which the payment guarantee is additional collateral, has been guaranteed by our subsidiary. In January 2013, our subsidiary received notice that a complaint had been filed by the purported successor to the lender alleging events of default under the loan documents and seeking to foreclose on the property. Effective February 28, 2013, the court granted a motion of the plaintiff and appointed a receiver for the property. As a result, the receiver and its affiliated management company are managing and operating Algonquin Commons and are collecting all rents for the property. We cannot currently estimate the impact the dispute will have on our consolidated financial statements and may not be able to do so until a final outcome has been reached. We believe that, if our subsidiary is required to pay the full amount outstanding under the payment guarantee or a foreclosure occurs, there could be a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations for the period and the year in which it occurs. We believe these events would not have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheets because there would be a corresponding reduction in both the assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Even if we have to make payment under the payment guarantee, we believe that the effect of a foreclosure of the property and release of the corresponding debt on our consolidated balance sheets will result in an improvement in certain financial ratios, and the collective effect of the payment, foreclosure and release will be neutral to Funds From Operations ("FFO").Federal Income Tax Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected. We intend to operate so as to continue qualifying as a REIT under the Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its stockholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances is not entirely within our control and may affect our ability to qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. New legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifying as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification. We may fail to qualify as a REIT if, among other things: •less than 75% of the value of our total assets consists of cash and cash items (including receivables), real estate assets (including mortgages and interests in mortgages) and government securities at the close of each fiscal quarter;•securities of any one issuer (other than permitted securities, such as government securities or mortgages) represent more than 5% of the value of our total assets; however, up to 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017);•we own more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of a single issuer other than certain permitted securities, such as government securities or mortgages, and securities in a taxable REIT subsidiary;•less than 75% of our gross income (excluding income from prohibited transactions) is derived from real estate sources. These sources include mortgage interest, rents from real property, amounts received as consideration to enter into real estate leases or to make a loan secured by a mortgage and gains from the sale of real estate assets;•less than 95% of our gross income is derived from the income items included in the 75% test and also includes interest income, dividend income and gains from the sale of securities; or•we fail to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and were not entitled to relief under the Code: 16Table of Contents•we would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to stockholders when computing our taxable income;•we would be subject to federal (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;•we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions;•we would have less cash to pay distributions to stockholders; and•we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of being disqualified.We face possible adverse changes in tax laws. From time to time, changes in federal, state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues at the federal, state and municipal government levels in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of these changes. If these changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our income, property or net worth and may be assessed interest and penalties on such additional taxes. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available to pay distributions. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” we will incur taxes equal to the full amount of the income from the prohibited transaction. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We also may decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on this income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have to file income tax returns to receive a refund of the income tax paid on their behalf. We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income, property or net worth, either directly or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce our cash available to pay distributions. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business tax income. The Code may classify distributions paid to a tax-exempt investor as unrelated business tax income, or UBTI, if the investor borrows money to purchase our shares. In order to maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. In order to maintain our REIT status, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We may need short-term debt or long-term debt, proceeds from asset sales, creation of joint ventures or sale of common stock to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Insurance Risks Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general, and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. Under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which has been extended through the end of 2020, the federal government bears part of the cost required to make terrorism insurance available under property and casualty insurance policies, but there can be no assurance that insurance coverage for terrorism will be available on affordable terms, or at all. There are other types of losses, such as from wars, acts of nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism or the presence of mold at our properties, for which we cannot obtain insurance at all or at a reasonable cost. With respect to these losses and losses from acts of terrorism, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties.Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of 17Table of Contentshazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of our real estate. If environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments because: •as owner or operator we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination;•the law typically imposes clean up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination;•even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the cleanup costs; and•governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing at our properties, or increasing the restrictions on the handling, storage or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or other actions, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos: •properly manage and maintain the asbestos;•notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos; and•undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Some of our properties are located in urban, industrial and previously developed areas where fill or current or historic industrial uses of the areas have caused site contamination. It is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct Phase I environmental site assessments and asbestos surveys for each property we seek to acquire. These assessments generally include a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the properties and the surrounding areas and a review of relevant state, federal and historical documents, but do not involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. Where appropriate, on a property-by-property basis, our practice is to have these consultants conduct additional testing, including sampling for asbestos, for lead in drinking water, for soil contamination where underground storage tanks are or were located or where other past site usage creates a potential environmental problem, and for contamination in groundwater. Additionally, we periodically engage third party environmental specialists to complete site inspections on certain investment properties, namely those occupied by dry cleaners, oil change facilities and print shops, to ensure that the environmental condition of the respective property has not changed. Even though these environmental assessments are conducted, there is still the risk that: •the environmental assessments and updates did not identify all potential environmental liabilities;•a prior owner created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the assessments;•new environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were conducted; and•future uses or conditions such as changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in environmental liability for us. 18Table of ContentsInquiries about indoor air quality may necessitate special investigation and, depending on the results, remediation beyond our regular indoor air quality testing and maintenance programs. Indoor air quality issues can stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contaminants from indoor or outdoor sources, and biological contaminants such as molds, pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to chemical or biological contaminants above certain levels can be alleged to be connected to allergic reactions or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. If these conditions were to occur at one of our properties, we may need to undertake a targeted remediation program, including without limitation, steps to increase indoor ventilation rates and eliminate sources of contaminants. These remediation programs could be costly, necessitate the temporary relocation of some or all of the property’s tenants or require rehabilitation of the affected property. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including shopping centers, be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. We may be required to invest substantial amounts of capital to make, among other things, substantial alterations in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures.Our business could suffer in the event we experience system failures or cyber-incidents or a deficiency in cybersecurity. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. A cyber-incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More specifically, a cyber-incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can result in third parties gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information. As reliance on technology in our industry has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those that have been outsourced. In addition, the risk of a cyber-incident, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.The remediation costs and lost revenues experienced by a victim of a cyber-incident may be significant and significant resources may be required to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. There also may be liability for any stolen assets or misappropriated confidential information. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, there can be no assurance that those measures will be sufficient.19Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we had no outstanding unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports.20Table of Contents