Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risk factors that we believe are material to our investors. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions. Real Estate Risks We compete with numerous other parties or entities for real estate and tenants. We compete with numerous other persons or entities seeking to buy real estate assets, or to attract tenants to properties we already own, including REITs or other real estate operating companies. These persons or entities may have greater experience and financial strength. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire additional real estate assets or attract tenants on favorable terms, if at all. For example, our competitors may be willing to purchase properties at prices that result in yields below what we believe is our minimum required yield or may offer space at properties that compete with ours at rental rates below our existing rates, causing us to lose existing or potential tenants and pressuring us to reduce our rental rates to retain existing tenants or convince new tenants to lease space at our properties. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of your shares, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the income generated by our properties: •downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate;•competition from other retail properties;•local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for retail properties;•changes in interest rates and availability of financing;•vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space;•increased operating costs, including, but not limited to, insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes, and heightened security costs;•decreased tenant recovery income as a result of decreased occupancy;•civil disturbances, natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and•declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants. Tenants may fail to pay their rent, declare bankruptcy or seek to restructure their leases. We derive substantially all of our revenue from leasing space at our investment properties. Thus, our results may be negatively affected by the failure of tenants to pay rent when due. We may experience substantial delays and expense enforcing rights against tenants who do not pay their rent or who seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. Even if a tenant does not seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, the tenant may from time to time experience a downturn in its business which may weaken its financial condition and its ability to make rental payments when due, leading the tenant to seek revisions to its leases. Loss of revenues from significant tenants could reduce distributions to preferred and common stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Safeway, Roundy's and Carmax, which are our three largest anchor tenants in our consolidated portfolio and accounted for 4.13%, 3.89% and 3.69%, respectively of our consolidated annualized base rent for the year ended December 31, 2012. Vacated anchor space can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. Certain anchors have the right to vacate and hinder re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the term. If a significant tenant vacates a property, then other tenants at the property may be entitled to terminate their lease or reduce the amount of their rental obligation. The loss of a significant number of the locations of these anchor tenants, or the inability of them to pay rent, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. 7Table of ContentsLeases on approximately 7% of total leased square feet in our consolidated portfolio and approximately 6% in our unconsolidated portfolio expire during 2013. As leases expire, we may not be able to renew or re-lease space at rates comparable to, or better than, the rates contained in the expiring leases, or at all. Leases on approximately 684,000 square feet, or approximately 7% of total leasable square feet of approximately 9,335,000 in our consolidated portfolio, will expire prior to December 31, 2013. Leases on approximately 342,000 square feet, or approximately 6% of total leasable square feet of approximately 5,860,000 in our unconsolidated portfolio, will expire prior to December 31, 2013. If we fail to renew or re-lease space at rates that are at least comparable to the rates on expiring leases, revenues at the impacted properties will decline. Further, we may have to spend significant sums of money to renew or re-lease space covered by expiring leases. Property taxes may increase. We are required to pay taxes based on the assessed value of our investment properties determined by various taxing authorities such as state or local governments. These taxing authorities may increase the tax rate imposed on a property or may reassess property value, either of which would increase the amount of taxes due on that property. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire properties and portfolios of properties, including large properties that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: •we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all;•acquired properties may fail to perform as expected;•the actual costs of repositioning and redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates;•we are seeking to expand our market area and may acquire properties in areas where we do not have substantial experience in, or knowledge of, the market and may lack business relationships and may be unfamiliar with local governmental and permitting procedures; and•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability. We may acquire properties subject to known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: •liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination;•claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties;•liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and•claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. We may not be able to quickly vary our portfolio. Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid. Except in certain circumstances, in order to continue qualifying as a REIT, we are subject to rules and regulations that limit the ability to sell investment properties within a short period of time. These rules may limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of a property even when doing so would be in our interest. The recent market disruptions may adversely affect the value of our investment properties. The recent market volatility has exerted, and may continue to exert downward pressure on the value of our investment properties and our unconsolidated joint ventures. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded approximately $722 and $2,841, respectively of such impairment charges related to certain consolidated properties. The impairment charges were required because we determined that the carrying value of the properties were higher than their fair values and required adjustment. No impairment charges to consolidated properties were recorded or required during the year ended December 31, 2010. Similarly, during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded approximately $7,824 and $2,498, respectively (amounts equal to our pro rata share of impairment charges on certain unconsolidated development joint venture projects) to reflect the properties at fair value and we recorded approximately $5,223 and $18,190, respectively in impairment losses to record our investment in certain unconsolidated joint ventures at their fair values. No impairment adjustments to unconsolidated 8Table of Contentsinvestments or unconsolidated joint venture properties were recorded or required during the year ended December 31, 2012. There is no assurance we will be able to recover any of these charges upon sales of the impacted properties.Investment Risks We may incur additional indebtedness, which may harm our financial position and cash flow and potentially impact our ability to pay dividends on our preferred and distributions on our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $746,576 of indebtedness, $412,361 of which was secured. We may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could harm our financial position and potentially limit our cash available to pay dividends. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds remaining to pay dividends on our preferred and common stock. Increases in our borrowing and the resulting increase in our leverage could affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to comply with our financial covenants governing our indebtedness.If we pay distributions that exceed our cash flow from operations, we will have less funds available for other purposes and the amount of distributions may not be sustainable. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid distributions totaling approximately $7,719 and $53,678 to our preferred and common stockholders, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $68,955. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid distributions totaling approximately $779 and $50,500 to our preferred and common stockholders, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $63,274. To the extent that net cash provided by operating activities declines we may be forced to consider reducing our distributions or the amount that we pay in cash in order to preserve a cushion between the amount of cash distributions paid and net cash provided by operating activities. To the extent that we pay cash distributions exceeding net cash provided by operating activities, the amount of our distribution payments may not be sustainable or we may use funds generated by financing or investing activities which could further reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes including acquiring new investment properties, funding capital expenditures on existing investment properties, funding cash requirements for our various joint ventures or repaying debt. If these other requirements cannot be reduced, we will likely be forced to reduce the amount of our cash distributions. We have changed the amount of our distributions in the past and may change our distribution policy in the future. Recognizing the need to maintain maximum financial flexibility in light of the state of the capital markets, in 2009 we reduced the amount we paid monthly in distributions to $0.0475 per common share. We have continued to pay this amount monthly and we currently expect to continue to pay monthly cash dividends at this rate in 2013, but we may change our distribution policy again at any time in the future. The decision to declare and pay distributions on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any future distributions, will depend on our earnings, cash flows from operations, funds from operations, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual prohibitions or other limitations under our indebtedness, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, state law and any other factors we deem relevant. Any change in our distribution policy or the amount of distributions we pay to common stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our preferred and common stock. Our shareholders have experienced dilution as a result of our stock offerings and they may experience further dilution if we issue additional stock. The issuance of common stock in our prior offerings and our current at-the-market (“ATM”) issuance program and the issuance of preferred stock in 2012 and 2011 have, and may continue to have, a dilutive effect on our earnings and funds from operations per share. Any additional issuances of stock will also further reduce the percentage of our stock owned by investors who do not participate in these future issuances. Shareholders are not entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional stock already authorized for issuance. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of our stock and the value of our properties, our shareholders may experience dilution in both the book value and market value of their shares. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our preferred and common stock. The trading price of our shares of preferred or common stock, like other publicly traded equity securities, depends on various market conditions that may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that could affect the market price of our preferred and common stock are the following: •the extent of investor interest in our securities;•the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies;9Table of Contents•material economic concerns;•changes in tax laws;•our financial performance; and•general stock and bond market conditions.Our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If, among other things, our future earnings or cash distributions are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our preferred and common stock will decline. Our investment in preferred and common equity securities have, and may in the future, negatively impact our results. To enhance the yields available to us on our cash balances, we have invested in a portfolio of preferred and common equity securities issued by other REIT and non-REIT companies. As of December 31, 2012, the balance of our investment securities was $8,711, net of an unrealized gain of $762. Fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets can have an impact on the trading price of these securities. No impairment charges were recorded or required for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, but we may have to recognize impairment charges or losses related to these investments in future periods. Our objectives may conflict with those of our joint venture partners. We own certain of our investment properties, through joint ventures with third parties. In some cases, we control the joint venture and in some cases we are a minority partner. Investments in joint ventures involve risks that are not otherwise present with properties which we own entirely. For example, a joint venture partner may file for bankruptcy protection or may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our goals or interests. Further, although we may own a controlling interest in a joint venture and may have authority over major decisions such as the sale or refinancing of investment properties, we may have fiduciary duties to the joint venture partners or the joint venture itself that may cause, or require, us to take or refrain from taking actions that we would otherwise take if we owned the investment properties outright. Certain joint venture commitments require us to invest cash in non-operating property under development and in properties that do not necessarily meet our investment criteria but which are offered for syndication through our joint venture with IPCC. In some cases, capital has been committed for periods longer than expected, for example, when development or syndication takes longer than anticipated thus impacting our liquidity and capital resources. Financing Risks We often need to borrow money to finance our business. Our ability to internally fund operating or capital needs is limited since we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders to qualify as a REIT. Consequently, we may have to borrow money to fund operating or capital needs or to satisfy the distribution requirements, imposed by the Code, to maintain status as a REIT. Borrowing money exposes us to various risks. For example, our investment properties may not generate enough cash to pay the principal and interest obligations on loans or we may violate a loan covenant that results in the lender accelerating the maturity date of a loan. As of December 31, 2012, we owed a total of approximately $746,576. Approximately $412,361 of this debt is secured by mortgages on our investment properties. The remaining $334,215 is comprised of unsecured debt reflecting draws on our line of credit facility and borrowings under our term loans and the face value of our convertible notes. If we fail to make timely payments on our debt, including those cases where a lender has accelerated the maturity date due to a violation of a loan covenant, the lenders could foreclose on the investment properties securing the loan and we could lose our entire investment on any foreclosed properties. Once a loan becomes due, we must either pay the remaining balance or borrow additional money to pay off the maturing loan. We may not, however, be able to obtain a new loan, or the terms of the new loan, such as the interest rate or payment schedule, may not be as favorable as the terms of the maturing loan. Thus, we may be forced to sell a property at an unfavorable price to pay off the maturing loan or agree to less favorable loan terms. In addition, we may have limited availability under our line of credit facility which may reduce our ability to borrow funds. A total of approximately $106,658 and $82,597 of our indebtedness, including required monthly principal amortization, matures on or before December 31, 2013 and 2014, respectively. We intend to repay this debt using available cash, by borrowing amounts under our unsecured line of credit facility or by refinancing the maturing debt, or some combination of all these. There is no assurance we will be able to do so and we may incur significantly higher borrowing costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Included in the debt maturing in 2013 is approximately $90,247 secured by our Algonquin Commons property. Although these loans do not mature until November 10Table of Contents2014, we have included them in 2013 because the lender has accelerated the due date of the loans in connection with their decision to initiate foreclosure proceedings.As of December 31, 2012, we owed approximately $361,000, or 48% of total outstanding debt, on indebtedness that bore interest at variable rates with a weighted average of 2.38% per annum. These rates are reset each month. A 1.0% annualized increase in these variable rates would have increased our interest expense by approximately $3,610 for the year ended December 31, 2012. We may borrow additional amounts that bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, the amount of interest that we would be required to pay on these borrowings will also increase. Additionally, if lending requirements become stricter, we may find it difficult to encumber properties with terms similar to our current loan terms. This could result in a decrease in the number of properties we are able to purchase or principal and/or interest payments higher than recent historical levels. Higher interest payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and would result in a decrease in the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of our common stock. We have guaranteed approximately $800 of unconsolidated joint venture debt and approximately $7,400 of consolidated debt as of December 31, 2012. These guarantees are in effect for the entire term of each respective loan. We would be required to make payments on these guarantees upon the default of any of the provisions in the loan documents, unless the default is otherwise waived. Approximately $37,644 of total unconsolidated joint venture debt matures during 2013, of which we have guaranteed $800. The joint ventures expect to either repay the maturing debt as it matures or will soon be in discussions with various lenders to extend or restructure this joint venture debt although there is no assurance that we, or our joint venture partners, will be able to restructure this debt on terms and conditions we find acceptable, if at all. Our pro rata share of any repayments will be funded using available cash and/or draws on our line of credit facility.In June 2012, we ceased paying the monthly debt service on the mortgage loans encumbering Algonquin Commons. In January 2013, we received notice that a complaint had been filed by the successors to the lender alleging events of default under the loan documents and seeking to foreclose on the property. The loan documents include a payment guarantee, equal to approximately $18,600 at December 31, 2012. If we are required to pay the full amount outstanding under the guaranty, then making that payment could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of cash flows for the period and the year in which it would be made and it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the period and the year in which we culminate the disposal of the property and related debt. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $746,576 in total indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis (excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt). Additionally, there was a total of approximately $460,116 of outstanding debt incurred by our unconsolidated joint ventures, of which our pro rata share was approximately $235,941. Debt to total market capitalization ratio, which measures total debt as a percentage of the aggregate of total debt plus the market value of outstanding equity securities, is often used by analysts to gauge leverage for REITs such as us. Our debt to total market capitalization ratio was approximately 46.5%, excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt, and 53.4%, including our pro rata share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, as of December 31, 2012. This ratio will increase with declines in our stock price which closed at $8.38 on December 31, 2012 or with increases in our borrowing, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our stock. In addition, our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. In addition, a greater amount of debt relative to our peer group could have a negative effect on our stock price. Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to borrow additional monies secured by the property or to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. Covenants on our unsecured line of credit facility also limit our ability to incur indebtedness above certain levels and require us to satisfy certain conditions before borrowing, such as maintaining certain total debt to asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, among others. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan unless we are able to repay the loan. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement, and we may then be required to repay this debt. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient resources to repay this debt. To hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we may use derivative financial instruments that may be costly and ineffective and may reduce the overall returns on your investment. From time to time we have used, and may in the future use, derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates on loans secured by our assets. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or 11Table of Contentsrepurchase agreements. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy.To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk, basis risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. We do not believe the risk of counterparty nonperformance is material due to the current economic conditions. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to Qualify as a REIT. We may fail to qualify as a REIT if, among other things: •less than 75% of the value of our total assets consists of cash and cash items (including receivables), real estate assets (including mortgages and interests in mortgages) and government securities at the close of each fiscal quarter;•securities of any one issuer (other than permitted securities, such as government securities or mortgages) represent more than 5% of the value of our total assets; however, up to 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries;•we own more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of a single issuer other than certain permitted securities, such as government securities or mortgages, and securities in a taxable REIT subsidiary;•less than 75% of our gross income (excluding income from prohibited transactions) is derived from real estate sources. These sources include mortgage interest, rents from real property, amounts received as consideration to enter into real estate leases or to make a loan secured by a mortgage and gains from the sale of real estate assets;•less than 95% of our gross income is derived from the income items included in the 75% test and also includes interest income, dividend income and gains from the sale of securities; or•we fail to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected. We intend to operate so as to continue qualifying as a REIT under the Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its stockholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances is not entirely within our control and may affect our ability to qualify, or continue to qualify, as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualifying as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and were not entitled to relief under the Code: •we would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to stockholders when computing our taxable income;•we would be subject to federal (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;•we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we failed to qualify, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions;•we would have less cash to pay distributions to stockholders; and•we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of being disqualified.We face possible adverse changes in tax laws. From time to time, changes in federal, state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues at the federal, state and municipal 12Table of Contentsgovernment levels in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of these changes. If these changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our income, property or net worth and may be assessed interest and penalties on such additional taxes. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available to pay distributions. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” we will incur taxes equal to the full amount of the income from the prohibited transaction. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We also may decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on this income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have to file income tax returns to receive a refund of the income tax paid on their behalf. We also may be subject to state and local taxes on our income, property or net worth, either directly or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce our cash available to pay distributions. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business tax income. The Code may classify distributions paid to a tax-exempt investor as unrelated business tax income, or UBTI, if the investor borrows money to purchase our shares. In order to maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. In order to maintain our REIT status, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We may need short-term debt or long-term debt, proceeds from asset sales, creation of joint ventures or sale of common stock to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Third parties may be discouraged from making acquisition or other proposals that may be in stockholders’ best interests. Under our governing documents, no single person or group of persons (an entity is considered a person) may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock (unless permitted by the board). Although the board may waive the application of these provisions to certain persons, they are not obligated to do so. These provisions may prevent or discourage a third party from making a tender offer or other business combination proposal such as a merger, even if such a proposal would be in the best interest of the stockholders.Recent tax-rate changes could reduce after-tax returns for holders of our common and preferred stock. The maximum rates on ordinary dividend income and long-term capital gains received after December 31, 2012, by individuals, estates, and trusts increased from 35% and 15%, respectively, to 39.6% and 20%, respectively. In addition, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, certain U.S. holders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be required to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends and certain other investment income, including capital gains from the sale or other disposition of our common and preferred stock. Insurance Risks Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general, and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. There are other types of losses, such as from wars, acts of nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism or the presence of mold at our properties, for which we cannot obtain insurance at all or at a reasonable cost. With respect to these losses and losses from acts of terrorism, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, if we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties.Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of our real estate. If environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments because:13Table of Contents •as owner or operator we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination;•the law typically imposes clean up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination;•even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the cleanup costs; and•governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing at our properties, or increasing the restrictions on the handling, storage or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or other actions, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos: •properly manage and maintain the asbestos;•notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos; and•undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Some of our properties are located in urban, industrial and previously developed areas where fill or current or historic industrial uses of the areas have caused site contamination. It is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct Phase I environmental site assessments and asbestos surveys for each property we seek to acquire. These assessments generally include a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the properties and the surrounding areas and a review of relevant state, federal and historical documents, but do not involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. Where appropriate, on a property-by-property basis, our practice is to have these consultants conduct additional testing, including sampling for asbestos, for lead in drinking water, for soil contamination where underground storage tanks are or were located or where other past site usage create a potential environmental problem, and for contamination in groundwater. Even though these environmental assessments are conducted, there is still the risk that: •the environmental assessments and updates did not identify all potential environmental liabilities;•a prior owner created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the assessments;•new environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were conducted; and•future uses or conditions such as changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in environmental liability for us. Inquiries about indoor air quality may necessitate special investigation and, depending on the results, remediation beyond our regular indoor air quality testing and maintenance programs. Indoor air quality issues can stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contaminants from indoor or outdoor sources, and biological contaminants such as molds, pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to chemical or biological contaminants above certain levels can be alleged to be connected to allergic reactions or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. If these conditions were to occur at one of our 14Table of Contentsproperties, we may need to undertake a targeted remediation program, including without limitation, steps to increase indoor ventilation rates and eliminate sources of contaminants. These remediation programs could be costly, necessitate the temporary relocation of some or all of the property’s tenants or require rehabilitation of the affected property. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including shopping centers, be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. We may be required to invest substantial amounts of capital to make, among other things, substantial alterations in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures.15Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we had no outstanding unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports.16Table of Contents