ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN RISKS AFFECTING BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION This section highlights some specific risks affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. The list of risks is not intended to be exhaustive and the order in which the risks appear is not intended as an indication of their relative weight or importance. Our entry into a merger agreement with Macrovision Corporation may have adverse impacts. On December 6, 2007, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Macrovision. Consummation of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions and approval by our stockholders and the stockholders of Macrovision. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as provided for under the merger agreement, or at all. We face risks and uncertainties due both to the pendency of the merger as well as the potential failure to consummate the merger: • We may not realize any or all of the potential benefits of the merger, including any synergies that could result from combining the resources of Gemstar-TV Guide and Macrovision; • We will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the merger even if it is not consummated; • Under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee to Macrovision in the amount of either $27.7 million or $55.4 million; • The pendency of the merger could have an adverse impact on the Company’s relationships with employees, customers and suppliers, and prospective customers or other third parties may delay or decline entering into agreements with us as a result of the announcement of the proposed merger; and • The attention of our management and employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. For more risks and uncertainties associated with the merger with Macrovision, please see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (SEC File No. 333-148825) filed by Macrovision Solutions Corporation on January 23, 2008, and any changes or updates to such Risk Factors at the time such Registration Statement is declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. New products and services, rapid technological change and changes in consumer demand may adversely affect our operations. The emergence of new consumer entertainment products, services and technologies, changes in consumer preferences and other factors may limit the life cycle of our products, services and technologies and any future products, services or technologies we might develop. Although we believe that we will continue to develop attractive new products and services, the industries in which we operate are characterized by rapid changes, including technological changes and changes in consumer demand. Our future operations could be adversely impacted by our ability to identify emerging trends in our markets and to develop and market new products and services that respond to competitive offerings, technological changes and changing consumer preferences in a timely manner and at competitive costs. 14 Table of Contents Our investments in developing new products and services, improving existing products and services, and promoting our business through corporate marketing initiatives may not be effective. We have recently established a new product development and technology group to enhance the Company’s product development efforts, and we are committing significant resources to our product development efforts. The process of developing and marketing new products and services is inherently complex and uncertain, and there are a number of risks, including the following: • we cannot assure you that the level of funding and significant resources we are committing for investments in new products, services, technologies and initiatives will be sufficient or result in successful new products, services or technologies; • we cannot assure you that our newly developed products, services or technologies can be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property rights or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others; • we cannot assure you that any new products or services that we develop will achieve market acceptance; • our products, services and technologies may become obsolete due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences; and • our competitors and/or potential customers may develop products, services or technologies similar to those developed by us, resulting in a reduction in the potential demand for our newly developed products, services or technologies. Our failure to successfully develop new and improved products, services and technologies, including as a result of any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability and may adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We have also recently launched various corporate marketing initiatives, including a national cross-platform consumer marketing campaign, designed to drive greater usage of our products and elevate our brand, and thereby increase the Company’s revenues. These marketing initiatives represent a significant investment of both time and money. There can be no assurance that these marketing initiatives will ultimately be successful in driving greater usage of our products and elevating our brand, or that they will lead to greater revenues for the Company. We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure which, if ineffective, may adversely affect our business results. We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure, tools, systems, technologies and content, including initiatives relating to digital asset and rights management and data warehouses, aimed to create, assist in the development or operation of, or enhance our ability to deliver innovative guidance products and services across multiple media, digital and emerging platforms. These investments may ultimately cost more than is anticipated, their implementation may take longer than expected and they may not meaningfully contribute to or result in successful new or enhanced products, services or technologies. We face risks arising from our TV Guide magazine publishing business. Risks Relating to the Transformation of TV Guide Magazine. Prior to the re-launch of TV Guide magazine in a full-sized, full-color format in October 2005, the operating results of our magazine publishing business had deteriorated over a period of several years due to significant declines in the digest-sized magazine’s newsstand sales, contribution per copy, and advertising revenue. Prior to the re-launch, we sought to reverse such declines through a variety of different initiatives, including editorial changes and aggressive promotional offerings. However, those efforts were unsuccessful. Consequently, during the fourth quarter of 2005 we transformed our TV Guide magazine from a digest-sized, listings oriented format to a more contemporary full-sized, full-color magazine, filled with more features and photos and targeted at a younger demographic. However, several other widely circulated magazines and other media outlets seek to appeal to this market segment and the advertisers who seek to reach it. A business initiative of this scale is inherently risky and there can be no assurance that our assumptions are valid or that our circulation and advertising goals can be achieved. Additionally, the ongoing costs associated with the transformation of the magazine are substantial, and should this initiative ultimately prove unsuccessful, the cost of pursuing other alternatives may be significant. We cannot assure that the transformed magazine or our magazine publishing business will achieve profitability. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Magazine Publishing Business. Both our advertising and circulation revenue can be negatively impacted by decreases in circulation and readership levels. In addition, TV Guide magazine and the overall magazine industry have been subjected to increasing competition from sources other than traditional print formats, such as the Internet. The risk exists that this trend may continue. We have attempted to take advantage of the growth of online media and advertising, but we face increasing competition from other online sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. To the extent advertisers view other forms of media as providing a more cost-effective or generally superior method for reaching consumers with advertising, the profitability of publishing magazines, including TV Guide, will be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in achieving the volume of circulation guaranteed to advertisers or may incur significant additional costs in attempting to do so and we may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. If we cannot maintain our magazine circulation or if we experience erosion in the magazine’s readership, this could, in turn, adversely affect our circulation and advertising revenues. We face risks arising from our TV Guide Network strategy. Revenues at TV Guide Network consist of affiliate fees and advertising revenues; however, since the majority of our affiliates are contracted under long-term agreements with only cost-of-living increases available under certain contracts, we do not expect significant growth in affiliate revenues in the future. Accordingly, the results at TV Guide Network are highly dependent upon advertising revenue. Advertising revenue at the TV Guide Network primarily comes from commercials sold during our programming hours (11:00 AM to 2:00 AM) and infomercials broadcast between 2:00 AM and 11:00 AM. Advertising sales are primarily dependent on the extent of distribution of the network; viewership ratings, such as those published by Nielsen; and the strength of the market for advertising. While TV Guide Network has benefited, to a certain degree, from the expanded distribution that we have achieved, a significant portion of the expanded distribution has been to DBS subscribers, who did not previously have TV Guide Network as a programming choice. Digital cable and DBS homes also have many more channels and generally use an IPG, rather than TV Guide Network, for listing information. As such, the viewership of TV Guide Network in digital cable and DBS homes has been minimal to date. Also, certain of the long-term agreements with MSOs for the TV Guide Network allow for migration to exclusively digital carriage. If the MSOs elect to migrate TV Guide Network to digital carriage, TV Guide Network will generally experience a corresponding reduction in subscribers, resulting in reduced affiliate fee revenue and potentially reducing advertising revenue, due both to the smaller pool of potential viewers and the fact that TV Guide Network’s viewers come primarily from analog cable homes where scroll data is still utilized for guidance. We have been investing in new programming and marketing initiatives at TV Guide Network with an expectation that the additional investments that we are making in programming and marketing will, in the future, result in increased viewership in both cable and DBS homes. If our viewership ratings do not improve sufficiently or we are unable to maintain broad distribution of the TV Guide Network, our increased programming and marketing costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While we have undertaken significant programming and marketing initiatives designed in part to position TV Guide Network as an entertainment destination independent of listings data, there can be no assurance that such initiatives will ultimately result in increased viewership ratings and advertising revenues, or that any initial increase in viewership ratings will be sustainable over time. Labor disputes in the entertainment industry may adversely impact certain of our businesses. Labor disputes involving one or more of the unions involved in the production of television or film programming, including the recent work stoppage by the Writers Guild of America, could result in reduced revenues for, or otherwise adversely impact, certain of our businesses. The adverse impacts of such disputes, even if they are resolved between the parties, may be direct or indirect. The potential impacts on our businesses could include reduced program promotion advertising in or on TV Guide magazine, TV Guide Network or Online Networks, the cancellation of awards shows or events we would otherwise cover, or a general decline in the public’s interest in television or entertainment. The longer and more extensive any such labor dispute is, there is an increased likelihood that our businesses will be adversely impacted. Failure to attract and retain key employees could adversely impact our business. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain talented executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Our businesses require individuals with relevant experience and diverse skill sets, and the market for these personnel is highly competitive. The failure to attract employees with the requisite skills and abilities to our company, or the loss of key employees, could adversely impact our ability to meet key objectives, such as the timely and effective development and delivery of products and services, and could otherwise have a significant impact on our operations. 16 Table of Contents Digital recapture may adversely affect our TV Guide Network business and operating results. Cable television is transmitted on a limited frequency spectrum that must be allocated between multiple analog and digital channels. As digital penetration increases, MSOs are reclaiming analog bandwidth to launch more high-definition channels and other services, and are likely to continue this recapture until they rebuild their plants to increase bandwidth or there is stability in the mix of analog and digital carriage. Digital recapture will result in a significant decline in the distribution of our analog TV Guide Network, which could negatively impact our operating results. The market for IPG advertising and our ability to fully exploit it may not develop. The market for IPG advertising is at an early stage of development and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in our efforts to develop IPG advertising as an advertising medium widely accepted by consumers and advertisers. In addition, MSO, DBS and IPTV providers who have a patent license from us are not required to provide advertising in their IPG. Therefore our ability to derive advertising revenues from IPGs distributed by our patent licensees is also dependent on the implementation of IPG advertising by such licensees. Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for consumer electronics devices incorporating our technologies. We derive significant revenues from manufacturer license fees for our VCR Plus+ and IPG technologies based on the number of units shipped. We do not manufacture hardware, but rather depend on the cooperation of CE manufacturers to incorporate our VCR Plus+ and IPG technologies into their products. Generally, our license agreements do not require manufacturers to include our technology in any specific number or percentage of units, and only a few of these agreements guarantee a minimum aggregate licensing fee. Purchases of new CE devices, including television sets, integrated satellite receiver decoders, DVRs, DVD recorders, personal computers and Internet appliances are largely discretionary and may be adversely impacted by increasing market saturation, durability of products in the marketplace, new competing products, alternate consumer entertainment options and general economic trends in the countries or regions in which these products are offered. As a result, our future operating results may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in sales of CE devices employing our technologies. In addition, the decision by manufacturers to incorporate our IPG technology into their products is a function of what other guide technologies and products are available. Our future operating results may be adversely impacted as a result of CE manufacturers opting not to incorporate our technology into their devices as a result of other available alternatives. VCR Plus+ revenues have declined over time and are expected to decline further. The worldwide shipment of VCRs has declined, and is expected to continue to decline as VCRs are replaced by digital recording devices such as DVD recorders and DVRs. Although VCR Plus+ is now being incorporated into some lower price point digital recording devices, there is no assurance that this practice will become widespread or continue. Furthermore, in order to encourage the incorporation of our IPG in CE products, we have been offering certain large CE manufacturers the opportunity to bundle both our IPG and VCR Plus+ technology at a significant discount beginning with sales reported in fiscal 2005. While we believe this will ultimately accelerate the incorporation of our IPG to our benefit, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our existing VCR Plus+ agreements as they expire, upon terms as favorable to us as those contained in prior contracts, or at all. We face competition in many areas and the competition could negatively impact our operating results. We face competition from a wide range of other companies in the communications, advertising, media, entertainment, publishing, information, Internet services, software and technology fields. The competitive environment could, among other results, require price reductions for our products and services, require increased spending on marketing and product development, limit our ability to develop new products and services, limit our ability to acquire rights to produce and/or display content that is popular among our targeted audience, limit our ability to expand our customer base or even result in attrition in our customer base. Any of these occurrences could negatively impact our operating results. Many of our competitors have greater financial and human resources than we do. As a result, these competitors can compete more effectively by offering customers better pricing and other more favorable terms and conditions. Our IPGs face competition from companies that produce and market program guides as well as television schedule information in a variety of formats, both print and electronic. Several products and services on the market offer simplified VCR programming functions that compete with our VCR Plus+ system. TV Guide magazine competes with general entertainment and other magazines at newsstand and for subscribers. The TV Guide Network competes with general entertainment channels for television viewership and carriage on cable and DBS systems. Online Networks competes for visitors with general entertainment Web sites and online search providers, including sites that provide television listings, television-specific information and/or that enable users to locate and view video on the Internet. Each of TV Guide magazine, TV Guide 17 Table of Contents Network and Online Networks vie for marketers’ advertising spend with other media outlets. TVG competes for viewers with other television networks, one of which is under common ownership with several racetracks and accepts wagers from residents of more states than TVG accepts. In addition, TVG competes for wagering and telecast rights with other networks and account wagering providers. TVG licenses its patents, and sublicenses audiovisual and pari-mutuel account wagering rights for content from various horse racetracks, to certain account wagering providers and is paid royalties based upon account wagering from certain horse racetracks processed by its licensees. These licensees currently maintain wagering accounts for residents of certain states in which TVG does not. TVG’s contracts for account wagering and telecast rights with racetracks, as well as its sublicensing arrangements, have varying maturities and renewal terms. TVG could be unable to renew its current contracts when they expire or the renewal terms could be less favorable than the current terms, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s TVG business. In addition, TVG and its licensees compete for wagering revenue with other account wagering operations and industry participants. Any infringement by us or some of our licensees on patent rights of others could affect the development of our products and services or result in litigation. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer some of our products and services. Many of our competitors as well as other companies and individuals have obtained, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we plan to offer. We may not be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, in the United States, patent applications are generally confidential for a period of 18 months from the filing date, or until a patent is issued in some cases, so we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications prior to their publication. If one or more of our products or services is found to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others and whether the licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain the licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain the licenses, we might not be able to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement. Furthermore, we provide indemnification protection to some of our IPG licensees under which we may be obligated to indemnify those licensees and hold them harmless from some claims, including claims that our or their products or services infringe other parties’ patents. The Company’s indemnification obligations are typically limited based upon the amounts paid to the Company by the licensee under the license agreement; however, some license agreements, including those with our largest MSO and DBS providers, do not specify a limit on amounts that may be payable under the indemnity arrangements. Certain of the Company’s large MSO and DBS licensees have received notices of pending or threatened patent claims from Finisar (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Furthermore, the costs of investigating, defending or remedying alleged infringement and/or related indemnification claims could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Some terms of our agreements with licensees could be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect licensing revenue payable to us under those agreements. Some of our license agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing licensee. We have entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements may obligate us to provide different terms to licensees, which could, if applied, result in lower revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. While we believe that we have appropriately accounted for the most favored nation terms included in our license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Dependence on the cooperation of MSOs and DBS providers, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, publications, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenues. We rely on third party providers to deliver our IPG data to CE devices that include our IPG. Further, our national data network provides customized and localized listings to our IPG service for MSOs and DBS providers and licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs and DBS providers. There can be no assurance that these delivery mechanisms will distribute the data without error or that the agreements that govern some of these relationships can be maintained on favorable economic terms. 18 Table of Contents To deliver our IPG data to CE devices, we have arrangements to carry our data in a part of the television signal called the vertical blanking interval (“VBI”) or its digital signal equivalent, of television stations included in the public broadcasting network, independently owned stations, and stations owned and operated by various station group owners. We have historically only delivered our IPG data to CE devices through the VBI in analog broadcast signals. In anticipation of the FCC mandate of 100% digital transmission in the United States, which takes effect in 2009, we recently entered into a long-term IPG data distribution and advertising agreement with CBS Corporation, which will allow for the distribution of our CE IPG data in the United States over the digital broadcast signals of both CBS owned and operated stations and participating affiliates following the installation of necessary equipment. We are in the process of securing the participation of additional CBS affiliates, but have not yet reached agreements with a sufficient number of affiliate stations for the entire amount of coverage we need. We also rely on other arrangements in the United States, which are not long-term, with other broadcasters for secondary carriage of our IPG data to CE devices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully renew or extend any of our existing carriage arrangements when they expire, or that renewals will be on terms that are as favorable to the Company as the arrangements currently in effect. Our inability to renew the existing arrangements on terms that are favorable to the Company, or enter into alternative arrangements that allow us to effectively transmit our IPG data to CE devices could have a material adverse effect on our CE IPG business. Our IPG data to CE devices broadcast through the VBI can be, and has been in the past in some markets, deleted or modified by some of the local service providers. Widespread deletion or modification of this data by service providers could have a material adverse impact on our CE IPG business. To mitigate this risk in the United States, we have entered into agreements with many service providers to ensure that our IPG data to CE devices will not be deleted or modified by such systems. Additionally, cable companies in the United States are progressively moving their systems from an analog format to a digital format, which poses certain problems to the passage of our IPG data to CE devices carried in their signals. Solving such problems will require the cooperation of third parties such as the MSOs and hardware manufacturers, and may also require additional investment by the Company. Furthermore, in order for CE devices that incorporate our IPG to receive our data, such data must also be able to pass through any receivers through which such CE devices are receiving television programming signals. Even if our IPG data is passed to cable subscribers through cable networks by the service providers, there is a risk that the cable set-top boxes deployed by such subscribers can impede the passage of our IPG data to CE devices. Widespread impedance of our IPG data to CE devices in any of the manners set forth above could have a material adverse impact on our CE IPG business. We are currently making significant investments in the United States, Europe and Japan to build the capability to provide our program listings information via digital broadcast signals to support the next generation of products from our manufacturing partners. This involves in some cases deploying equipment to aggregate and insert listings data, and securing bandwidth in digital broadcast streams to deliver that data. If we are unable to complete this digital delivery build-out in each of our regions in time to meet the planned deployment of the next generation of digital broadcast reliant CE devices, this could have a material adverse impact on our CE IPG business. We deliver our data to our IPG service for MSOs and to licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs via satellite transmission, among other means. While we have built in certain redundancies in our data delivery operation, a third party provides us with satellite capacity to transmit our data to our IPG service for certain MSOs and to licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs. Our arrangement with the third party provider may be terminated on little or no notice. In the event that this provider of satellite capacity elects not to provide this capacity to transmit our data, there can be no assurance that all of our customers who currently receive our data via this provider will be able to receive our data via alternative means without significant delay or additional cost to us. In the event that such provider elects not to transmit our data, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we purchase some of our program guide information from commercial vendors. The quality, accuracy and timeliness of that data may not continue to meet our standards or be acceptable to consumers. Our VCR Plus+ system relies on consumer access to PlusCode numbers through licensed publications. We depend on the maintenance and renewal of agreements governing the PlusCode publications to ensure the distribution of the PlusCodes. Limitations on control of joint ventures may adversely impact our operations. The Company holds its interests in certain businesses, including Guideworks and IPG Inc., as a joint venture or in partnership with nonaffiliated third parties. As a result of such arrangements, the Company may be unable to control the operations, strategies and financial decisions of such joint venture or partnership entities which could in turn result in limitations on the Company’s ability to implement strategies that the Company may favor, or to cause dividends or distributions to be paid. In addition, the Company’s ability to transfer its interests in businesses owned with third parties is limited under certain joint venture, partnership or similar agreements. 19 Table of Contents Seasonality and variability of consumer electronics product shipments and advertising sales may affect our revenues and results of operations on a quarterly or annual basis. Shipments of CE products tend to be higher in the second and fourth calendar quarters. We recognize revenues associated with our technology incorporated in these CE products when the shipments are reported to us, which is normally the quarter immediately following that of actual shipment by the licensee. In addition, manufacturer shipments vary from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including retail inventory levels and retail promotional activities. General advertising also tends to be higher in the fourth quarter. As a result, we may experience variability in our licensing and advertising revenues. Paper and postal price increases can materially raise our costs associated with the production and delivery of TV Guide magazine. The price of paper can be a significant factor affecting TV Guide magazine’s operating performance. We do not hedge against increases in paper costs. Paper prices may increase and if we cannot pass these costs on to our customers, the increases may have a material adverse effect on us. Postage for product distribution, billings, renewals, and direct mail solicitations is also a significant, uncontrollable expense to us. The gaming activities of TVG are extensively regulated. TVG derives a substantial portion of its revenue from pari-mutuel wagering, which is subject to extensive statutory and regulatory oversight. Additionally, TVG’s Internet-based horse race wagering operations are heavily regulated. Adverse changes in the political climate, new legislation or regulatory activity could harm our business. From time to time, members of Congress and state legislatures have introduced bills that would prohibit or severely restrict off-track interstate pari-mutuel or Internet-based wagering. If any such legislation were enacted into law, TVG’s advance deposit wagering business could be adversely affected. Congress recently passed legislation which prohibits the use of various electronic payment methods and systems in connection with illegal Internet-based wagering activities. While this recently enacted legislation continues to provide an exemption for advance deposit wagering on horse racing as conducted by TVG, there is a risk that further legislation or regulations could be enacted or promulgated that could adversely affect the business, operations or prospects of our TVG business. In addition, from time to time, payment systems have, on behalf of their member financial institutions, taken actions to limit the use of credit cards and debit cards for non face-to-face gaming transactions as a means of combating illegal Internet-based gambling operations and may do so in the future in response to additional regulatory burdens. Although such efforts to restrict payment mechanisms may not be intended to restrict the lawful activity of licensed operations such as TVG, the resulting inconvenience to our customers caused by such measures could harm our business or growth prospects. The adoption of any laws, rules or regulations that further limit the ability of TVG to conduct interstate pari-mutuel wagering could have a material adverse effect on our TVG business. Continued consolidation of the cable and satellite broadcasting industry could adversely affect existing agreements; the impact of these changes is not clear. We have entered into agreements with a large number of cable MSOs and DBS providers for the licensing or distribution of our technology, products and services. If, as expected, consolidation of the cable and satellite broadcasting industry continues, some of these agreements may be affected by mergers, acquisitions or system swaps. We cannot assure you that any measures that we have taken to protect us against any negative consequences resulting from those transactions will be effective. Also, a service provider that files a bankruptcy petition or otherwise restructures or liquidates could avoid its future obligations and discharge its past payment obligations under the agreement in some circumstances. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenue we receive under these agreements. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our results may be affected by the outcome of pending and future litigation and the protection and validity of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Our patents and other intellectual property rights are important competitive tools and many generate income under license agreements. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the United States or abroad. Unfavorable rulings in our legal proceedings, including those described in Note 10, “Litigation and Other Contingencies,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements, may have a negative impact on us that may be greater or smaller depending on the nature of the rulings. In addition, we are currently, and from time to time in the future may be, subject to various other claims, investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings (whether civil or criminal) or lawsuits by governmental agencies or private parties. If the results of these investigations, proceedings or suits are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third party lawsuits, we may be required to pay monetary damages or may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a 20 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an investigation or proceeding or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or counterclaim, we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. The satellite transmission, cable and telecommunications industries are subject to pervasive federal regulation, including FCC licensing and other requirements. These industries are also often subject to extensive regulation by local and state authorities. While these regulations do not apply directly to us, they affect cable television providers and other multi-channel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), which are the primary customers for certain of our products and services. FCC regulations prohibit MPVDs (except DBS providers) from deploying after July 1, 2007 consumer electronic navigation devices (e.g., set-top boxes) with combined security and non-security functions (the “integration ban”). The Commission recently granted a number of requests for waiver of the integration ban, and denied several petitions for waivers or deferrals. Petitions for reconsideration of the decisions denying waivers are pending before the Commission. Resolution of these petitions and other FCC action with respect to these issues could affect demand for IPGs incorporated into set-top boxes or CE devices. Our stock price has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. It is likely that the market price of our common stock will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. We believe that future announcements concerning us, our competitors or our principal customers, including technological innovations, new product and service introductions, governmental regulations, litigation or changes in earnings estimated by us or analysts may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of outstanding common stock in the public market could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations in equity securities of technology and media companies. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as armed hostilities, acts of terrorism, civil disturbances, recessions, international currency fluctuations, or tariffs and other trade barriers, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Interruption or failure of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms could impair our abilities to effectively provide our products and services, which could affect our revenues. The provision of certain of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms, including satellite, cable, wire, over the air broadcast communications and transmission systems and mechanisms. These communication and transmission systems and mechanisms are subject to significant risks and any damage to or failure of these systems and mechanisms could result in an interruption of the provision of our products and services. Interruptions in the provision of our products and services could adversely affect our revenues, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our products and services are unreliable. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that we depend on are vulnerable to damage or interruption from telecommunications and satellite failures, natural disasters, terrorists attacks, power loss, computer viruses and similar events. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that we depend on are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Although we have implemented a disaster recovery program, a disaster could nevertheless damage our operations. We have implemented a disaster recovery or business continuity program as part of a phased implementation of a more comprehensive and responsive recovery capability. While the plan provides recoverability for our critical operations, the system is not yet comprehensive as it relates to all of our production, publishing and transmission operations. In the event of a catastrophic disruption, there remain some single points of failure or delays in timely recovery of or within our processes and technology that would cause us to lose, or cause an undue delay in, our ability to provide transmission or publishing capabilities. In that event, we would have to operate at reduced service levels that could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers, our revenue generation and our brand. News Corporation’s interests may diverge from those of other stockholders and the Company. News Corporation has significant influence over our business because of its beneficial ownership of our common stock and the number of its executives who serve on our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that its interests are aligned with that of our other stockholders. Investor interests can differ from each other and from other corporate interests and it is possible that this significant stockholder with a stake in corporate management may have interests that differ from those of other stockholders and of the Company itself. If News Corporation were to sell, or otherwise transfer, all or a large percentage of its 21 Table of Contents holdings, our stock price could decline and we could find it difficult to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, in the event that the pending Macrovision transaction is not completed for any reason, this concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us at a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 