Item 1A. Risk Factors Industry Factors As a financial services company, our business and earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, particularly in the real estate industry, and accordingly, our business and earnings could be further harmed in the event of a continuation or deepening of the current U.S. recession or further market deterioration or disruption. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business, economic and market conditions in the United States. These conditions include changes in short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuation in the real estate and debt capital markets, developments in national and regional economies and changes in government policies and regulations. Our business and earnings are particularly sensitive to economic and market conditions affecting the real estate industry because most of our loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate, construction and residential loans. While generally containing lower risk than unsecured loans, commercial real estate and construction loans generally involve higher credit risk than conventional single-family residential loans. Such loans also generally involve larger individual loan balances. In addition, real estate construction loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because many real estate construction borrowers’ ability to repay their loans is dependent on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. Construction and commercial real estate loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on the borrower being able to refinance the loan, timely sell the underlying property or liquidate other assets. The current U.S. recession has resulted in a reduction in the value of the real estate assets securing a large portion of the loans that we hold. An increasing number of borrowers have become delinquent or defaulted on their loans, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition, including the value of our intangible assets. A further increase in the number of delinquencies or defaults would result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The condition of the residential mortgage and related markets and the economy may deteriorate further and adversely affect our business. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of worsening economic conditions that have adversely affected the performance and market value of our residential construction and mortgage loans. Across the United States, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase. In addition, 10 Index to Financial Statements housing prices and appraisal values in most markets have declined or stopped appreciating. An extended period of flat or declining housing values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and further losses on residential construction and mortgage loans. Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which impact our net interest margin, and can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict or anticipate. The financial services industry is highly competitive. We operate in a highly competitive industry which has become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can now merge by creating a financial services company called a “financial holding company,” which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. A number of foreign banks have acquired financial services companies in the United States, further increasing competition in the U.S. market. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Many nonbanks have converted to bank holding companies in order to receive government assistance under the U.S. Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program (TARP). The newly formed bank holding companies are expected to increase competition for deposits and other business traditionally pursued by banks. The financial services industry is heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. The Company, its subsidiary bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to our reputation. For more information, refer to discussions of regulatory considerations contained in Item 1 — Business and Note 19, Regulatory Matters and Restrictions. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) may not stabilize the financial services industry or the U.S. economy. The EESA was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The legislation was intended to alleviate the financial crisis affecting the U.S. banking system. A number of programs have been and are being developed and implemented under EESA. The EESA may not have the intended effect and therefore the condition of the financial services industry may worsen instead of improve. The failure of the EESA to improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact our business, our financial condition, our financial results, our access to funding or capital as well as the trading price of our common stock or other instruments. 11 Index to Financial Statements The ARRA was signed into law on February 17, 2009. The legislation was intended to provide immediate and long-term solutions to the current U.S. recession. The ARRA may not have the intended effect; therefore, the current U.S. recession and the condition of the financial services industry may worsen instead of improve. The failure of the ARRA to improve the current U.S. recession and/or improve the condition of the U.S. banking system could significantly adversely impact our business, our financial condition, our financial results, or our access to funding or capital, as well as the trading price of our common stock or other instruments. Current market volatility and industry developments may adversely affect our business and financial results. The volatility in the capital and credit markets along with the housing declines during the last year have resulted in significant pressure on the financial services industry. We have experienced a higher level of foreclosures and higher losses upon foreclosure than we have historically. If current volatility and market conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that our industry, results of operations or our business will not continue to be significantly adversely impacted. We may have further increases in loan losses, deterioration of capital or limitations on our access to funding or capital, if needed. Further, if other financial institutions fail to be adequately capitalized or funded, it may negatively impact our business and financial results. We routinely interact with numerous financial institutions in the ordinary course of business and are therefore exposed to operational and credit risk to those institutions. Failures of such institutions may significantly adversely impact our operations. Strategies to manage interest rate risk may yield results other than those anticipated. Changes in the interest rate environment are difficult to predict. Net interest margins can expand or contract which can significantly impact our overall earnings. Changes in interest rates can also adversely affect how we apply critical management estimates, our projected returns on investments, as well as the determination of fair values of certain assets. Events such as natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war occurring in the U.S. could affect our business and financial results. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business, economic and market conditions occurring in the U.S. and particularly in our primary markets. Events such as natural disasters, a terrorist attack or war could result in prolonged business disruption and/or materially impair the value of collateral securing loans, which could adversely impact our business. Company Factors The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program are evolving and may have adverse effects on us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program will limit (without the consent of the U.S. Treasury Department) our ability to pay a dividend on common stock or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the Federal Deposit Act, may have an adverse effect on us, whether or not we participate in the programs. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program requires the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC based upon the increased deposit coverage afforded thereunder. Further, we will be required to pay significantly higher Federal 12 Index to Financial Statements Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have decreased the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The full effects of these various programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Failure to receive final approval for participation in the U.S. Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program (TARP) or our inability to raise additional capital on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to us could have a significant impact on our Company. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we received preliminary approval from the U.S. Treasury Department to participate in its Capital Purchase Program subject to raising additional capital of at least $300 million. The amount of TARP preferred stock to be issued is subject to a maximum of 3% of our latest bank holding company total risk weighted assets. As of December 31, 2008, if all conditions are satisfied the maximum amount of TARP preferred stock we would expect to issue to the U.S. Treasury Department is approximately $536 million. The preliminary approval also includes provisions concerning the timely completion of the preferred stock agreements by Colonial, which time has since elapsed. BancGroup has been informed by a representative of the U.S. Treasury Department that the Company will be allowed additional time to satisfy the conditions contained in the preliminary approval. The preliminary approval also contains other provisions which, along with the time constraints, would allow the U.S. Treasury Department to modify or revoke the preliminary approval. While we are actively pursuing a variety of capital raising alternatives to satisfy the preliminary approval conditions to issue TARP preferred stock, we cannot guarantee our success, and therefore we may not receive additional third party capital or issue TARP preferred stock, and could therefore be subject to increased regulatory oversight pursuant to the MOUs discussed in Item 1 and in these Risk Factors below. Failure to adequately address the regulatory concerns in these informal MOUs may result in actions by our banking regulators under the prompt corrective action provisions ranging from a formal written agreement pursuant to Section 8 of the FDIC Improvement Act which would preclude Colonial Bank from being considered well capitalized to the restriction or prohibition of certain activities by BancGroup or Colonial Bank. If Colonial Bank were to be deemed an undercapitalized institution, the banking regulators could require the Bank to submit a plan for restoring Colonial Bank to an acceptable capital category and our failure to adequately comply could eventually allow the banking regulators to appoint a receiver or conservator of Colonial Bank’s net assets. The issuance of preferred stock and convertible warrants to the U.S. Treasury Department as well as any additional capital raised from the private sector would dilute the Company’s existing common shareholders. As discussed above, if the Company is successful in raising additional capital and issues TARP preferred stock and warrants to the U.S. Treasury Department, existing common shareholders will experience significant dilution to their current ownership in the Company. The holding company and Colonial Bank are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and oversight. Due to their current condition and results of operations, BancGroup and Colonial Bank are operating under heightened regulatory scrutiny and have been and will be taking steps which are expected to improve their asset quality and capital. Colonial Bank entered into an informal Memorandum of Understanding with the FDIC and the Alabama State Banking Department on December 15, 2008, and BancGroup entered into an informal Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on January 6, 2009, addressing, among other items, management of asset quality and increased capital for Colonial Bank. Colonial Bank has agreed to increase its Tier I leverage ratio to 8% and its total risk-based capital ratio to 12% by March 31, 2009 and to improve asset quality by dates beginning June 30, 2009. While management is attempting to comply with these deadlines through the capital raising transactions described in Item 1 under Executive Overview of Operations and Conditions, failure to do so may result in the consequences described in the following paragraph. Colonial Bank may not pay dividends on its common stock owned by BancGroup without the prior written consent of the FDIC and the Alabama State Banking Department. BancGroup has agreed to use its resources to support Colonial Bank. BancGroup will not pay dividends on its common or preferred stock, purchase or redeem treasury stock, or incur additional debt or refinance existing debt without prior written consent of the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department. Additionally, if BancGroup receives the U.S. Treasury 13 Index to Financial Statements Department’s Capital Purchase Program funds, we will be required to receive approval from the U.S. Treasury Department prior to the payment of any dividend on common stock or the repurchase of any common stock so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. These matters are a major focus of the attention and efforts of the Board of Directors and management. Failure to adequately address the regulatory concerns in these informal memoranda may result in actions by our banking regulators against BancGroup and/or Colonial Bank such as the imposition of a written agreement or a cease and desist order pursuant to Section 8 of the FDIC Act. Such actions could preclude Colonial Bank from being considered well capitalized and/or impose other restrictions or prohibitions of certain activities by BancGroup or Colonial Bank. If Colonial Bank were to be deemed an undercapitalized institution, the banking regulators could require the Bank to submit a plan for restoring Colonial Bank to an acceptable capital category, and our failure to adequately comply could eventually allow the banking regulators to appoint a receiver or conservator of Colonial Bank’s net assets. Any current or future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, inquiries or changes could have a significant impact on our Company. The financial services industry, including BancGroup, has experienced unprecedented market value declines caused primarily by the current U.S. recession and real estate market deterioration. As a result of the current market perceptions of shareholder advocacy groups as well as the new U.S. Administration in Washington, D.C., litigation, proceedings, inquiries or regulatory changes are all distinct possibilities for financial institutions. We are, and will in the future be, the subject of shareholder litigation. Such actions or changes could result in significant costs. See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 for more information. The concentration of our assets in Florida makes us sensitive and more susceptible to changes in the economic, demographic and regulatory conditions in that state. A significant portion of the loans in our portfolio are secured by residential and commercial properties in Florida. Deteriorating real estate market conditions and a significant economic downturn in Florida have negatively impacted our business. Worsening conditions in the Florida real estate markets could continue to adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay as well as impact the value of the collateral underlying our loans. Real estate values are impacted by various factors, including general economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on the uninsured portions of these loans. These factors may adversely impact our borrowers’ ability to make required payments, which in turn, may negatively impact our results. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and revenues. As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual, alleged or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our customers’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance, acquisitions, as a defendant in litigation, or from actions taken by government regulators or community organizations. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain customers and can expose us to litigation or regulatory action. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to certain sources of wholesale borrowings, thereby increasing the cost or reducing, or eliminating, the availability of these sources of funding. Disruptions in our ability to access capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Other sources of funding available to us, and upon 14 Index to Financial Statements which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include deposits, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of depositors, debt purchasers, or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt ratings, may adversely affect our borrowing costs and our liquidity. Deposit pricing may continue to negatively impact our net interest margin and earnings. Intense competition for liquidity during 2008 resulted in elevated rates being paid on time deposits, thereby compressing net interest margin and reducing net interest income. A continuation or exacerbation of such competition for time deposits would continue to adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We might not successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of our products and services and/or develop and maintain loyal customers. The holding company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue. The holding company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from its subsidiaries. Dividends from Colonial Bank are a significant source of funds for BancGroup to pay any future dividends on the holding company’s common stock. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the holding company. Colonial Bank may not currently pay dividends on its common stock without prior written consent of its regulators. Also, the holding company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. For more information, refer to Payment of Dividends and Other Restrictions in Item 1 and Note 19, Regulatory Matters and Restrictions. Our accounting policies and methods determine how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that not only do they comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States but also that they reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies and Basis of Presentation, describes our significant accounting policies. We have identified six accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) allowance for loan losses; (2) fair value of financial instruments; (3) purchase accounting and goodwill; (4) income taxes; (5) consolidations; and (6) stock-based compensation. A change in management’s assumptions and estimates 15 Index to Financial Statements underlying these critical accounting policies could result in a material change to the Company’s financial position and results of operations. For more information, refer in this report to Critical Accounting Policies in Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing the inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any inherent losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. We maintain an available for sale securities portfolio which includes various types of instruments and maturities. In addition, we elected to record selected loans held for sale at fair value. The changes in fair value of the loans held for sale that we have elected to carry at fair value are recognized in earnings. The securities and loans held for sale are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We may elect to carry additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. Our mix of products and customers subjects us to potential concentration risk. Colonial Bank offers a defined group of products, both retail and commercial, to its customers throughout the branch network. As a result of the products offered and customers served, BancGroup is subject to concentration risk. See the Concentration discussion within the Risk Management section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis for further information. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave without effective replacements, operations may suffer. The future success of our business will be dependent to a large degree on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the banking industry. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be negatively impacted. Current compensation limits for key personnel at institutions receiving any government funds may increase the risk of loss of their services and create a competitive disadvantage with non-U.S. peer institutions or institutions not receiving any government funds. We may not realize the expected benefits from our Colonial 1st Project. The Colonial 1st Project, launched in December 2008, is an employee-driven effort to create a more efficient organization that delivers greater value for our shareholders and an enhanced banking experience for our customers. We are still in the early stages of this project and cannot be sure what the ultimate increase to annual pre-tax earnings will be, but other financial institutions of comparable size that have gone through this process 16 Index to Financial Statements have reported significant increases. The amounts of efficiency gains and earnings from new revenue growth initiatives are based on estimates and assumptions regarding future business performance and operating expenses. The anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements from the Colonial 1st Project may not be achieved in their entirety or accomplished within our expected time frame. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that the anticipated benefits from the Colonial 1st Project will be realized. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • recommendations by securities analysts; • short selling of our stock and increased failures to deliver; • new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • failure to integrate our acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or, conversely, a more successful integration or realization of more benefits than anticipated; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • changes in government regulations; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • potential actions of the banking regulators. The current price of our common stock is below the minimum allowed by New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing requirements. BancGroup’s stock is listed on the NYSE. The NYSE requires that listed stocks trade at or above $1 per share. The closing price of our stock has recently fallen below $1 per share for a number of days. If the average closing price is below $1 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, the NYSE may send us a de-listing notification, which we would disclose in a press release. Within ten days after receiving such notification, we can submit a proposal to the NYSE to bring our stock price above $1 within six months. However, there can be no assurance we will be successful in implementing such a proposal. If our common stock were to be de-listed from the NYSE, it would be traded over the counter, unless we were able to list it on another exchange. A de-listing by the NYSE would likely cause trading in our stock to be less liquid. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE announced a proposed temporary suspension of the stock-price rule through June 30, 2009. Although effective immediately, the rule is subject to a 30-day operative delay under Securities and Exchange Commission rules, for which the NYSE has requested and expects to receive a waiver. As the suspension is currently proposed, if our stock price remains below $1 per share during the suspension period, the compliance period for the 30 consecutive trading days will resume on July 1, 2009. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. 17 Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 