Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements contained in this annual report are forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events and can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Investors should be aware that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and, as a result of certain factors, actual results could differ materially from these expressed in or implied by such statements. These risks include such assumptions, risks, uncertainties and factors associated with the following: Financing for our retail customers may be limited, which could affect our sales volume. Our retail customers who do not use CountryPlace generally either pay cash or secure financing from third party lenders, which have been negatively affected by adverse loan experience. Several major lenders, which had previously provided financing for our customers, have exited the manufactured housing finance business. 9 Table of Contents Reduced availability of such financing is currently having an adverse effect on both the manufactured housing business and our home sales. Availability of financing is dependent on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. Quasi-governmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are important purchasers of loans from financial institutions, have tightened standards relating to the manufactured housing loans that they will buy. Most states classify manufactured homes as personal property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection, and interest rates for manufactured homes are generally higher and the terms of the loans shorter than for site-built homes. Financing for the purchase of manufactured homes is often more difficult to obtain than conventional home mortgages. There can be no assurance that affordable retail financing for manufactured homes will continue to be available on a widespread basis. If third party financing were to become unavailable or were to be further restricted, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If CountryPlace’s customers are unable to repay their loans, CountryPlace may be adversely affected. CountryPlace makes loans to borrowers that it believes are creditworthy based on its credit guidelines. However, the ability of these customers to repay their loans may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • national, regional and local economic conditions; • changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; • natural hazard risks affecting the region in which the borrower resides; and • employment, financial or life circumstances. If customers do not repay their loans, the profitability and cash flow from the loan portfolio could adversely affect CountryPlace’s ability to continue to securitize its loans. If CountryPlace is unable to continue to securitize its loans, it will be required to seek other sources of long-term funding, which funding may not be available. The loans that are originated by CountryPlace are funded with proceeds from its warehouse borrowing facility and borrowings from us. On July 12, 2005, CountryPlace successfully completed its initial securitization for approximately $141.0 million of loans which were funded by issuing bonds totaling approximately $118.4 million and on March 22, 2007, CountryPlace completed its second securitization for approximately $116.5 million of loans (including approximately $10.4 million of pre-funded loans to be originated in the future) funded by bonds totaling approximately $101.9 million. We anticipate CountryPlace will continue to securitize its loans as a primary source of liquidity. The proceeds from future securitizations will be used to repay any borrowings from the warehouse facility and from us, as well as to originate new loans. The securitization market is dependent upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the securities market generally and conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically. Although the asset-backed securitization market for manufactured housing lenders has improved in the past year in terms of access to the markets, as well as pricing and credit enhancement levels, poor performance of any loans we may securitize in the future could harm our future access to the securitization market. If CountryPlace is unable to continue to securitize its loans on terms that are economical, or if there is a decline or interruption in the securitization market for manufactured housing loans, and if CountryPlace is unable to obtain additional sources of long-term funding, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. If interest rates increase, the market value of un-securitized loans and loans in the warehouse borrowing facility may be adversely affected. Fixed rate loans originated by CountryPlace are held in a floating rate warehouse borrowing facility prior to long-term financing via securitization, exposing CountryPlace to the risk of increased interest rates between the 10 Table of Contents time of loan origination and securitization. If interest rates for warehouse borrowings or term financings increase after loans are originated, the loans may suffer a decline in market value and our interest margin spreads could be reduced. From time to time, CountryPlace has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge its exposure to such interest rate risk associated with loans held in its warehouse borrowing facility. However, CountryPlace does not always maintain hedges or hedge the entire balances of all warehoused loans. Furthermore, interest rate swaps may be ineffective in hedging CountryPlace’s exposure to interest rate risk. If CountryPlace is unable to adequately and timely service its loans, it may adversely affect its results of operations. Although CountryPlace has originated loans since 1995, it has limited loan servicing and collections experience. In 2002, it implemented new systems to service and collect the portfolio of loans it originates. The management of CountryPlace has industry experience in managing, servicing and collecting loan portfolios; however, many borrowers require notices and reminders to keep their loans current and to prevent delinquencies and foreclosures. If there is a substantial increase in the delinquency rate that results from improper servicing or loan performance, the profitability and cash flow from the loan portfolio could adversely affect CountryPlace’s ability to continue to securitize its loans and CountryPlace could incur additional loan losses. We face increased competition from on site builders of residential housing, which may reduce our net sales. Our homes increasingly compete with homes that are built on site. The sales of site built homes are declining, which is resulting in more site built homes being available at lower prices. The decreased price of site built homes and the availability of sub prime mortgage financing could make them more competitive with our homes. As a result, the sales of our homes could decrease, which could negatively impact our results of operations and liquidity. Our business is highly cyclical, in a prolonged down cycle, highly competitive, seasonal and there may be significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. The factory-built housing industry is highly cyclical, in a prolonged down cycle, highly competitive, and seasonal and has experienced wide fluctuations in aggregate sales in the past. We are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors beyond our control such as: • access to capital markets; • the level and stability of interest rates; • unemployment trends; • the availability of retail financing; • the availability of wholesale financing; • the availability of homeowners’ insurance in coastal markets; • housing supply and demand; • industry availability of used or repossessed manufactured homes; • international tensions and hostilities; • levels of consumer confidence; • inventory levels; • severe weather conditions; • regulatory and zoning matters; and • changes in general economic conditions. 11 Table of Contents Sales in our industry are also seasonal in nature, with sales of homes traditionally being stronger in the spring, summer and fall months. The cyclical and seasonal nature of our business causes our net sales and operating results to fluctuate and makes it difficult for management to forecast sales and profits in uncertain times. As a result of seasonal and cyclical downturns, results from any quarter should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. Reduced availability of wholesale financing may adversely affect our inventory levels of new homes. We finance a portion of our new inventory at our retail superstores through wholesale “floor plan” financing arrangements. Through these arrangements, financial institutions provide us with a loan for the purchase price of the home. Since the beginning of the industry downturn in 1999, several major floor plan lenders have exited the floor plan financing business. Although we currently have a floor plan facility with a financial institution totaling $70 million, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have access to such a facility or that we will not be forced to reduce our new home inventory at our retail superstores. Our repurchase agreements with floor plan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the factory-built housing industry, we enter into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent dealer, builder or developer in its obligation to these credit sources, to repurchase factory-built homes at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12 to 18 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased home can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, is an expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of factory-built homes in the future, this would increase our costs, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with independent dealers, builders and developers could result in defaults by independent dealers, builders and developers and consequently repurchase obligations on our part may be higher than has historically been the case. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, our losses incurred under these repurchase agreements totaled $0, $157,000 and $65,000, respectively. We are dependent on our principal executive officer and the loss of his service could adversely affect us. We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our principal executive officer, Larry H. Keener, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of our principal executive officer could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our continued growth is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. We are controlled by two shareholders, who may determine the outcome of all elections. Approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned or controlled by our Chairman Emeritus, Lee Posey, and Capital Southwest Corporation and its affiliates. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, are able to determine the outcome of elections of our directors and thereby control the management of our business. Increased prices and unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations can be affected by the pricing and availability of raw materials. In fiscal 2007, average prices of our raw materials were flat compared to fiscal 2006, however, in fiscal 2006 and 2005 we experienced an increase in the average prices of our raw materials of 5% and 6%, respectively. Although we attempt to increase the sales prices of our homes in response to higher materials costs, such increases typically lag behind the escalation of materials costs. Although lumber costs have moderated, three of the most important raw materials used in our operations—lumber, gypsum wallboard and insulation—have experienced significant 12 Table of Contents price fluctuations in the past several fiscal years. Although we have not experienced any shortage of such building materials today, there can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of lumber, gypsum wallboard and insulation, as well as other materials, will continue to be available to us on terms we regard as satisfactory. If inflation increases, we may not be able to offset inflation through increased selling prices. If there is a material increase in inflation in the future, it is unlikely that we will be able to increase our selling prices to completely offset the material increase in inflation and as a result, our operating results may be adversely affected. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive and some of our competitors have stronger balance sheets and cash flow, as well as greater access to capital, than we do. As a result of these competitive conditions, we may not be able to sustain past levels of sales or profitability. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. Manufactured and modular homes compete with new and existing site-built homes and to a lesser degree, with apartments, townhouses and condominiums. Competition exists at both the manufacturing and retail levels and is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, retailer promotions, merchandising and terms of consumer financing. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources than we do. As a result of these competitive conditions, we may not be able to sustain past levels of sales or profitability. If our retail customers are unable to obtain insurance for factory-built homes, our sales volume and results of operations may be adversely affected. We sell our factory-built homes to retail customers located throughout the United States including in coastal areas, such as Florida. In fiscal 2007, 21% of our net sales were generated in Florida. Some of our retail customers in these areas have experienced difficulty obtaining insurance for our factory-built homes due to adverse weather-related events in these areas, primarily hurricanes. If our retail customers face continued and increased difficulty in obtaining insurance for the homes we build, our sales volume and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are concentrated geographically, which could harm our business. In fiscal 2007, 21% of our net sales were generated in both Florida and Texas. A decline in the demand for factory-built housing in these two states and/or a decline in the economies of these two states could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 