ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. The most significant of these factors are recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers’ inventory levels, excess tractor or trailer capacity, and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers, such as our floorcovering operation, and in regions of the country where we have a significant amount of business. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. We also are affected by increases in interest rates, fuel prices, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance costs, and the rising costs of healthcare for our employees. We could be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at our facilities or at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations. In addition, we cannot predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Any of these could lead to border crossing delays or the temporary closing of the United States/Canada or United States/Mexico border. Enhanced security measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other results of competition. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain or improve our current profitability. These factors include the following. 8 • We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, and other transportation companies. Many of our competitors have more equipment, a wider range of services, greater capital resources, or other competitive advantages. • Many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth in the economy. This may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to continue to expand our business. • Many of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets, and they may decide to transport more of their own freight. • In recent years, many shippers have reduced the number of carriers they use by selecting “core carriers” as approved service providers. As this trend continues, some of our customers may not select us as a “core carrier.” • Many customers periodically solicit bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in a loss of business to competitors. If we are unable to successfully execute our business strategy, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our strategy for increasing our revenue and profitability includes continuing to allocate more of our resources to our dedicated and expedited intermodal rail strategic business unit, our investments in Arnold and TTMS, and improving the profitability of all of our strategic business units through yield management and cost control efforts. We may experience difficulties and higher than expected expenses in reallocating our assets and developing new business. If we are unable to continue to grow and improve the profitability of our business units, our growth prospects, results of operations, and financial condition will be adversely affected. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly affect our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses may exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability, and cargo and property damage, as well as employees’ health costs. We also are responsible for our legal expenses within our self-insured retentions for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We currently reserve for anticipated losses and expenses and regularly evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect actual experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses above reserved amounts. Because of our substantial self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we experience an increase in the frequency and severity of claims for which we are self-insured, accruals of significant amounts within a given period, or claims proving to be more severe than originally assessed. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with insurance carriers that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. Insurance carriers recently have been raising premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to again raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage. Our revenue growth may not continue at historical rates, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have achieved significant revenue growth since becoming a public company in 1994. Over the past several years, however, our revenue growth rate has slowed. There is no assurance that our revenue growth rate will return to historical levels or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operating systems to respond to any future growth. Our operating margins could be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. Slower or less profitable growth could adversely affect our stock price. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. Like nearly all trucking companies, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the higher cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors, the available pool of independent contractor drivers has been declining. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers, the 9 availability of alternative jobs due to the current economic expansion, and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of our drivers, including independent contractor drivers, who are one of our principal sources of planned growth. In addition, our industry suffers from high turnover rates of drivers. This turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract a sufficient number of drivers and independent contractors, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, let trucks sit idle, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. In addition, the compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractors is subject to market forces, and we may find it necessary to continue to increase their compensation in future periods. Any increase in our operating costs or in the number of tractors without drivers would adversely affect our growth and profitability. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel may increase our cost of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We require large amounts of diesel fuel to operate our tractors, and diesel fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly, and prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to economic, political, and other market factors beyond our control. Substantially all of our customer contracts contain fuel surcharge provisions to mitigate the effect of price increases over base amounts set in the contract. However, these arrangements do not fully protect us from fuel price increases and also may result in our not receiving the full benefit of any fuel price decreases. Our fuel surcharges to customers do not fully recover all fuel increases because engine idle time, out-of-route miles, and non-revenue miles are not generally billable to the customer. We currently do not have any fuel hedging contracts in place. If we are unable to retain our senior officers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of the following senior officers: Patrick E. Quinn, our Co-Chairman of the Board, President, and Treasurer; Max L. Fuller, our Co-Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and Secretary; Ray M. Harlin, Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Jeffrey S. Wardeberg, Executive Vice President — Operations and Chief Operating Officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of these persons, except for salary continuation agreements with Messrs. Quinn and Fuller. The loss of any of their services could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth, and we may be unable to do so. Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We have experienced higher prices for new tractors over the past few years, partially as a result of government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines, in addition to higher commodity prices and better pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, emissions standards for 2007 will require vendors to introduce new engines, and some carriers may seek to purchase large numbers of tractors with pre-2007 engines, possibly leading to shortages. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers for these or other reasons. As a result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur additional expenses and related financing costs for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the new engines are expected to reduce equipment productivity and lower fuel mileage and, therefore, increase our operating expenses. We have agreements covering the terms of trade-in and/or repurchase commitments from our primary equipment vendors for disposal of a substantial portion of our tractors. The prices we expect to receive under these arrangements may be higher than the prices we would receive in the open market. We may suffer a financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if these vendors refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements, if we fail to enter into similar arrangements in the future, or if we do not purchase the required number of replacement units from the vendors. Our Xpress Global Systems segment faces certain additional risks particular to its operations, any one of which could impact the ability of that segment to attain profitability and adversely affect consolidated revenues and operating results. Our Xpress Global Systems segment faces several additional risks particular to its business and operations. As part of our goal of improving the profitability of the segment following our disposal of the airport-to-airport operations in the second quarter of 2005, we are implementing new rating and yield management programs at Xpress Global Systems. We also have high customer and industry 10 concentration in the segment, with Home Depot representing approximately 30% of Xpress Global Systems' revenue and substantially all of the revenue coming from the floorcovering industry. In addition, Xpress Global Systems is dependent upon independent contractors and third-party truckload carriers to provide a substantial portion of its linehaul movements. Our inability to successfully maintain the rating and yield management programs while maintaining the support of our customers, the reduction in or termination of business from one of Xpress Global Systems' major customers, a decrease in demand for Xpress Global systems’ services, or difficulty in obtaining capacity from independent contractors and truckload carriers and rate and fuel surcharge increases imposed by those truckload carriers each could adversely affect the earnings and profitability of the segment, which in turn may adversely affect consolidated operating results. Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our industry or business. As a result of our level of debt, operating lease obligations, and encumbered assets: • Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures is heightened; • We will continue to be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to operating lease payments and repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; • Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; • Our profitability is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates because some of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates, and future borrowings and lease financing arrangements will be affected by any such fluctuations; and • Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited. Our operating leases and debt obligations could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Service instability in the railroad industry could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer expedited intermodal rail services, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We depend on the major U.S. railroads for our expedited intermodal rail services. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any reduction in service by the railroads with whom we have relationships is likely to increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and reduce the reliability, timeliness, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based services. For example, on several occasions there have been service disruptions in the railroad industry that have impacted expedited rail service throughout the United States. Although the disruptions have been primarily with railroads other than our major providers, it is possible that future service disruptions that affect our operations may occur, which would decrease demand for, or the profitability of, our expedited intermodal rail business. In addition, because most of the railroads’ workforce is subject to collective bargaining agreements, our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes between the railroads and their union employees. Further, railroads are relatively free to adjust shipping rates up or down as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and our ability to offer expedited intermodal rail services. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S., Canadian, and Mexican agencies. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. and Canadian regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the EPA and the Department of Homeland Security, or DHS, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. In general, the increasing burden of regulation raises our costs and lowers our efficiency. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our practices,influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices would adversely affect our results of operations. 11 The DOT, through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. The primary areas of regulation that affect our operations include driver qualifications, drug and alcohol testing, hours-of-service limitations, and procedures to verify driver logs and safety. New rules that limit driver hours-of-service were adopted effective January 4, 2004, and then modified effective October 1, 2005. The rules effective October 1, 2005 did not substantially change the existing rules but are likely to create a moderate reduction in the amount of time available to drivers in longer lengths of haul, which could reduce equipment productivity in those lanes. The FMCSA is studying rules relating to braking distance and on-board data recorders that could result in new rules being proposed. We are unable to predict the effect of any rules that might be proposed, but we expect that any such proposed rules would increase costs in our industry, and the on-board recorders potentially could decrease productivity and the number of people interested in being drivers. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, of the DHS has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. Some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle in order to reduce exhaust emissions. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers’ behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle, or face a decrease in productivity. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired businesses. We have made over 10 acquisitions since becoming a public company in 1994. Accordingly, acquisitions have provided a substantial portion of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company’s operations, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms or successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we fail to do so, or we experience other risks associated with acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations dealing with above-ground fuel storage tanks, the transportation of hazardous material, engine idling, emissions standards, and other environmental matters. Our truck terminals are often located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We maintain above-ground tanks for lubricating oil at our terminals and facilities and fueling islands at four of our facilities. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Some of the freight we transport consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subject us to a wide array of regulations. If we are involved in a fuel spill or accident involving hazardous substances where there are releases of such substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that may harm our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Regulations limiting exhaust emissions became effective in 2002 and become progressively more restrictive in 2007 and 2010. Engines manufactured after October 2002 generally cost more, produce lower fuel mileage, and require additional maintenance compared with earlier models. Substantially all of our tractors are equipped with these engines. We expect additional cost increases and possibly degradation in fuel mileage from the 2007 engines. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly >designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. 12 Our Co-Chairmen, Patrick E. Quinn and Max L. Fuller, control a large portion of our stock and have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Patrick E. Quinn, Co-Chairman, President, and Treasurer, and Max L. Fuller, Co-Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Secretary, control a large portion of our stock and hold voting power of almost 50% of the outstanding votes. On all matters with respect to which our stockholders have a right to vote, including the election of directors, each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while each share of Class B common stock is entitled to two votes. All outstanding shares of Class B common stock are owned by Messrs. Quinn and Fuller and are convertible to Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis at the election of Messrs. Quinn or Fuller or upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. Accordingly, together Messrs. Quinn and Fuller will continue to effectively control decisions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the adoption or extension of anti-takeover provisions, mergers, and other business combinations. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for our Class A common stock, and could allow Messrs. Quinn and Fuller, together, to prevent or delay a change of control, which other stockholders may favor. The interests of Messrs. Quinn and Fuller may conflict with the interests of other holders of Class A common stock, and they may take actions affecting us with which the Class A common stockholders disagree. With the closing of transactions to increase our holdings in ATS and the Total Companies, the resulting increase in debt or adverse financial results at those companies may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Prior to closing the transactions to increase our ownership interest in both ATS and the Total Companies, we accounted for the financial results of ATS and the Total Companies using the equity method. Accordingly, the results of such companies were not consolidated with ours and the borrowing of such companies, which is substantial, was not reflected on our balance sheet. With the completion of the transactions, the companies' borrowing will be consolidated on our balance sheet, significantly increasing our total outstanding debt. Such increased borrowing will be accompanied by the risks identified in Item 1A., "Risk Factors – Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our industry or business". Moreover, adverse results at either or both of ATS or the Total Companies will adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 