Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision concerning the common stock of the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to or otherwise impact the alternative asset management business. Any of the risk factors we describe below have affected or could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The market price of our stock price could decline, possibly significantly or permanently, if one or more of these risks and uncertainties occur. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Asset Management Business BKF Advisors does not have a track record. BKF Advisors is a new investment advisor without any track record. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise a sufficient amount of money for the Fund. If we are unable to raise sufficient amount of money for the Fund we may not be able to achieve the Fund’s objectives. The fact that we are a new Fund, may limit it us to the types of investors that will invest in the Fund. Competitive pressures in the asset management business could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The asset management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service and level of desired information provided to fund investors, brand recognition and business reputation. We compete for fund investors, highly qualified talent, including investment professionals, and for investment opportunities with a number of hedge funds, private equity firms, specialized funds, traditional asset managers, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors create competitive risks for us: ¨A number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do. ¨Several of our competitors have raised and continue to raise significant amounts of capital, and many of them have or may pursue investment objectives that are similar to ours, which would create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit. ¨Some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments that we may want to make. ¨Some of our competitors may be subject to less extensive regulation and thus may be better positioned to pursue certain investment objectives and/or be subject to lower expenses related to compliance and regulatory investigations than us. We may lose fund investors in the future if we do not match or provide more attractive management fees, incentive income arrangements, structures and terms than those offered by competitors. However, we may experience decreased revenues if we match or provide more attractive management fees, incentive income arrangements, structures and terms offered by competitors. In addition, changes in the global capital markets could diminish the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products. This competitive pressure could materially adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future successful funds, either of which would materially adversely impact our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. 4 If our investment performance, including the level and consistency of returns or other performance criteria, does not meet the expectations of our fund investors, it will be difficult for our funds to retain or raise capital and for us to grow our business. Additionally, even if our fund performance is strong, it is possible that we will not be able to attract additional capital. Further, the allocation of increasing amounts of capital to alternative investment strategies over the long term by institutional and individual investors may lead to a reduction in profitable investment opportunities, including by driving prices for investments higher and increasing the difficulty of achieving consistent, positive, absolute returns. Competition for fund investors is based on a variety of factors, including: ¨Investment performance. ¨Investor liquidity and willingness to invest. ¨Investor perception of investment managers’ ability, drive, focus and alignment of interest with them. ¨Investor perception of robustness of business infrastructure and financial controls. ¨Transparency with regard to portfolio composition. ¨Investment and risk management processes. ¨Quality of service provided to and duration of relationship with investors. ¨Business reputation, including the reputation of a firm’s investment professionals. ¨Level of fees and incentive income charged for services. If we are not able to compete successfully based on these and other factors, our assets under management, earnings and revenues may be significantly reduced and our business may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are forced to compete with other alternative asset managers on the basis of fees, we may not be able to maintain our current management fee and incentive income structures, which drive our revenues and earnings. We have historically competed for fund investors primarily on the investment performance of our funds and our reputation, and not on the level of our fees or incentive income relative to those of our competitors. However, as the alternative asset management sector matures and addresses current market and competitive conditions, there is a risk that management fee and incentive income rates will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Management fee or incentive income rate reductions on existing or future funds, particularly without corresponding increases in assets under management or decreases in our operating costs, could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Even if we are able to compete successfully based on the factors noted above, it is possible we could lose assets under management to our competitors. During the financial crisis, for example, many investors in our funds were also investors in funds managed by other alternative asset managers that restricted or suspended redemptions for a period of time. During that period of time, investors redeemed assets from our funds due, we believe, to their inability to obtain liquidity from other sources. It is possible that similar circumstances could cause us to experience unusually high redemptions or a decrease in inflows, even if our investment performance and other business attributes are otherwise competitive or superior. 5 Investors in our fund have the right to redeem their investments in our funds on a regular basis and could redeem a significant amount of assets under management during any given quarterly period, which would result in significantly decreased revenues. Subject to any specific redemption provisions applicable to a fund, investors in our multi-strategy hedge funds may generally redeem their investments in our funds on an annual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time (typically between one and three years), although certain investors generally may redeem capital during such specified period upon the payment of a redemption fee and upon giving proper notice. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our assets under management potentially could accelerate. Furthermore, investors in our funds may also invest in funds managed by other alternative asset managers that have restricted or suspended redemptions or may in the future do so. Such investors may redeem capital from our funds, even if our performance is superior to such other alternative asset managers’ performance if they are restricted or prevented from redeeming capital from those other managers. Our business and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted by the highly variable nature of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues are influenced by the combination of the amount of assets under management and the investment performance of our funds. Asset flows, whether inflows or outflows, can be highly variable from month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter. Furthermore, our funds’ investment performance, which affects the amount of assets under management and the amount of incentive income we may earn in a given year, can be volatile due to, among other things, general market and economic conditions. Accordingly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows are all highly variable. As a result of quarterly fluctuations in, and the related unpredictability of, our revenues and profits, the price of our common stock can be significantly volatile. 6 Extensive regulation of the asset management business affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. Our reputation, business and operations could be materially affected by regulatory issues. Our business is subject to extensive and complex regulation, including periodic examinations and regulatory investigations, by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and trade around the world. As an investment adviser registered under the laws of the State of Florida and the State of California and a company subject to the registration and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act, we are subject to regulation and oversight by the SEC. The regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us have the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on our business and to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings. Such investigations and administrative proceedings can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of an investment adviser from registration or memberships. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Exchange Act or Advisers Act, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or a failure to maintain our funds’ exemption from compliance with the 1940 Act could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or to fail to gain new investors. Furthermore, the legal, technology and other costs associated with regulatory investigations could increase to such a level that they could have a material impact on our results. Increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our business. The financial industry is becoming more highly regulated. Legislation has been introduced in recent years by both U.S. and foreign governments relating to financial markets and institutions, including asset management firms, which would result in increased oversight and taxation. There has been, and may continue to be, a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment funds, including our funds. Such investigations may impose additional expenses on us, may require the attention of senior management and may result in fines if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant new regulations on the U.S. financial services industry, including aspects of our business and the markets in which we operate. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes a wide array of regulations covering, among other things: (i) oversight and regulation of systemic market risk (including the power to liquidate certain financial institutions); (ii) the ability of the Federal Reserve to regulate certain non-bank financial institutions and to prohibit insured depositary institutions and their affiliates from conducting proprietary trading and investing in private equity funds and hedge funds; (iii) new registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements for private fund investment advisers; (iv) minimum equity retention requirements for issues of asset-backed securities; (v) the establishment of a new bureau of consumer financial protection; and (vi) new requirements and higher liability standards for credit rating agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that non-bank financial companies (including asset management firms and hedge funds) may be evaluated for designation as systemically significant financial institutions subjected to enhanced supervisory standards relating to, for example, risk-based capital, leverage, risk management, credit exposure and concentration limits, and gives the FDIC authority to act as receiver of bank holding companies, financial companies and their subsidiaries in specific situations under the Orderly Liquidation Authority. If we or any of our funds were to be designated as a systemically significant financial institution we would be subject to increased costs of doing business by virtue of fees and assessments associated with such designation as well as by virtue of increased regulatory compliance costs, all of which would be likely to adversely affect our competitive position. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires increased disclosure of executive compensation and provides shareholders with the right to vote on executive compensation. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines to prohibit any incentive-based payment arrangements that the regulators determine encourage covered financial institutions to take inappropriate risks by providing officers, employees, directors or principal shareholders with excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss by such financial institutions. Until all of the relevant regulations and guidelines have been established, we cannot predict what effect, if any, these developments may have on our business or the markets in which we operate. 7 Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act required the SEC and the CFTC to implement more expansive regulations concerning whistleblowers. The SEC and the CFTC have each adopted rules under this requirement, establishing reward programs for persons who bring information to the SEC or the CFTC. To receive a reward under these programs, the information must “lead to the successful enforcement” of a judicial or administrative action brought by the SEC or CFTC that results in a monetary sanction of $1 million or more against a public company for a violation of the securities laws or the Commodity Exchange Act, respectively. While it is too soon to observe the full effect of these rules, they may result in increased regulatory inquiries or investigations by the SEC or the CFTC. Such inquiries or investigations could impose significant additional expense on us, require the attention of senior management and result in negative publicity and harm to our reputation. These and many other key aspects of the changes imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years and the Dodd-Frank Act mandates multiple agency reports and studies (which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action). As a result of the regulatory and other action yet to be taken, including with respect to the definition of certain key terms in the Dodd-Frank Act, we do not know what the final regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act will require and it is difficult to predict how significantly the Dodd-Frank Act will affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our administrative costs and could impose additional restrictions on our business. We may also be adversely affected if additional legislation or regulations are enacted, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets and their participants. Such changes could place limitations on the type of investor that can invest in alternative asset funds or on the conditions under which such investors may invest. Further, such changes may limit the scope of investing activities that may be undertaken by alternative asset managers as well as their funds. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with additional new laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business, which could have adverse impacts on our results of operations. 8 Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our funds in many ways, including by negatively impacting their performance and reducing their ability to raise or deploy capital, which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A recurrence of significant disruption and volatility in the global financial markets and economies could impair the investment performance of our funds. Additionally, we may not be able to raise capital for existing or new funds during, or even following, periods of market instability. Although we seek to generate consistent, positive, absolute returns across all market cycles, our funds have been and may be materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions. The global market and economic climate may become increasingly uncertain due to numerous factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, concerns related to unpredictable global market and economic factors, regulatory uncertainty, rising interest rates, inflation or deflation, the availability of credit, performance of financial markets, terrorism or political uncertainty. A general market downturn, a specific market dislocation or deteriorating economic conditions may cause our revenues and results of operations to decline by causing: ¨A decline in assets under management, resulting in lower management fees and incentive income. ¨An increase in the cost of financial instruments, executing transactions or otherwise doing business. ¨Lower or negative investment returns, which may reduce assets under management and potential incentive income. ¨Reduced demand for assets held by our funds, which would negatively affect our funds’ ability to realize value from such assets. ¨Increased investor redemptions or greater demands for enhanced liquidity or other terms, resulting in a reduction in assets under management, lower revenues and potential increased difficulty in raising new capital. Furthermore, while difficult market and economic conditions and other factors can potentially increase investment opportunities over the long term, including with respect to the competitive landscape for the hedge fund industry, such conditions and factors also increase the risk of increased investment losses and additional regulation, which may impair our business model and operations. Our funds may also be materially adversely affected by difficult market conditions if our investment professionals fail to assess the adverse effect of such conditions on our investments, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of those investments. Moreover, challenging market conditions may prompt alternative asset managers to reduce the management fee and incentive income rates they charge in order to retain assets. In response to competitive pressures or for any other reason, we may reduce or change the fee structures of our funds, which could reduce the amount of fees and income that we may earn relative to assets under management. Most of our funds utilize investment strategies that depend on our ability to appropriately react to, or accurately assess, the occurrence of, certain events, including market and corporate events. If we fail to do so, our funds’ investment performance could be adversely affected in a material way. Poor performance of our funds would cause a decline in our revenues, results of operations and cash flows and could materially adversely affect our ability to retain capital or attract additional capital. If our funds perform poorly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows decline because the value of our assets under management decreases, which in turn results in a reduction in management fees. To the extent that our funds perform poorly and such performance is continuing at the end of a relevant performance measurement period, we would experience a reduction in incentive income and, if such reduction was substantial, could result in the elimination of incentive income for a given year and future years until that decrease has been surpassed by positive performance. Poor performance of our funds would make it more difficult for us to raise new capital and may cause investors in our funds to redeem their investments. Investors and potential investors in our funds continually assess our funds’ performance, as well as our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds. Our ability to avoid excessive redemption levels will depend in part on our funds’ continued satisfactory performance. Moreover, poor performance, particularly in our most significant funds, would harm our reputation and competitive standing, which would further impair our ability to retain or attract fund capital. These factors may cause us to reduce or change the fee structure of our funds in order to retain or continue to attract assets under management, which could, further reduce the amounts of management fees and incentive income that we may earn relative to assets under management. 9 We may determine to use leverage in investments in our funds, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve positive rates of return on those investments. We may choose to use leverage in our funds, to the extent permitted by the fund, to increase the yield on certain of their investments, although historically they have not borrowed substantial capital either directly or through the use of derivative instruments. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk, most notably by significantly increasing the risk of loss associated with leveraged investments that decline in value, and enhances the possibility of a significant loss in the value of the investments in our funds. Our funds may borrow money from time to time to purchase or carry securities. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by appreciation in the securities purchased or carried, and will be lost—and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated—in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities. Volatility in the credit markets increases the degree of risk associated with such borrowing. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause a fund’s net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. If investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund’s net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. Increases in interest rates could also decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments made by our funds. To the extent our funds determine to significantly increase their use of leverage, any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by our funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with making an investment. Before investments are made by our funds, particularly investments in securities that are not publicly traded, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment bankers may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence that we carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, and such an evaluation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful. Moreover, the level of due diligence conducted with respect to a particular investment will vary and we may not properly assess the appropriate amount of diligence for each investment, which may result in losses. Our funds may invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, including structured products, and may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of the principal investments. Our funds may invest in securities that are not publicly traded or that are otherwise illiquid, including complex structured products. There may be no readily available liquidity in these securities, particularly at times of market stress or where many participants may be seeking liquidity at the same time. In many cases, our funds may be prohibited, whether by contract, by applicable securities laws or by the lack of a liquid market, from selling such securities for a period of time. Moreover, even if the securities are publicly traded, large holdings of securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial length of time, exposing the investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the required holding period. Accordingly, under certain conditions, our funds may be forced to either sell securities at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer, potentially for a considerable period of time, sales that they had planned to make. Investment in illiquid assets involves considerable risk and our funds may lose some or all of the principal amount of such investments. 10 Our funds make investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with whom we may not agree. Investments by our funds will include investments in debt or equity of companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by our funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions contrary to our expectations, with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. In addition, we may make investments in which we share control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for us to implement our investment approach or exit the investment when we otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur with respect to one or more significant investments, the values of such investments by our funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer as a result. Risk management activities may materially adversely affect the return on our funds’ investments. When managing our funds’ exposure to market risks, we may from time to time use hedging strategies and various forms of derivative instruments, to the extent allowed, to limit the funds’ exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly assess the degree of correlation between price movements of the hedging instrument, the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while we may enter into a transaction in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in connection with hedging activities and price movements in a position being hedged may vary. For a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be successful in establishing a perfect correlation between the instruments used in a hedging or other derivative transaction and the position being hedged. An imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended result and could give rise to a loss. In addition, it may not be possible to fully or perfectly limit our exposure against all changes in the value of our investment because the value of investments is likely to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control or ability to hedge. If our risk management processes and systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. We continue to refine and implement our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods, such as the use of statistical and other quantitative and qualitative tools to identify, observe, measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. These methods, even if properly implemented, may not allow us to fully mitigate the risk exposure of our funds in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our strategies for anticipating and managing risk in our funds are based upon our use of historical market behavior statistics, which may not be an accurate predictor of current or future market risks. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. Any failure in our risk management systems, whether in design or implementation, to accurately identify and quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in the funds, identify appropriate investment opportunities or realize positive, risk-adjusted returns. Because neither our quantitative nor qualitative risk management processes can anticipate for every investment the economic and financial outcome or timing and other specifics of the outcome, we will, in the course of our activities, incur losses. 11 Risks Related to the Company’s Acquisition Strategy The Company Has Limited Resources The Company currently does not have any operating business. The Company has had no revenues from operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company's plan of operations is to consummate an acquisition or merger or other business combination (a "Transaction") with a viable business entity (a "Target"). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate a Transaction, nor can there be any assurance that any Target, at the time of the Company's consummation of a Transaction of the Target, or at any time thereafter, will derive any material revenues from its operations or operate on a profitable basis. The current assets of the Company may not be sufficient to fund a Transaction. Based on the Company's limited resources, the Company may not be able to effectuate its business plan and consummate a Transaction. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by the Company will permit the Company to achieve its business objectives. The Company May Need Additional Financing in Order to Execute Its Business Plan The Company has limited resources. The Company cannot ascertain with any degree of certainty the capital requirements for the execution of its business plan to consummate a Transaction. In the event that the Company's limited financial resources prove to be insufficient to implement its business plan, the Company may be required to seek additional financing. In addition, in the event of the consummation of a Transaction, the Company may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the Target. Additional Financing May Not Be Available to the Company There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed, the Company would be limited in its attempts to complete Transactions. The inability of the Company to secure additional financing, if needed, could also have a material adverse effect on the continued existence of BKF. The Company has no arrangements with any bank or financial institution to secure financing and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement, if required or otherwise sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable and in the best interests of the Company. The Company May Not Be Able to Borrow Funds While there currently are no limitations on the Company's ability to borrow funds, the limited resources of the Company and limited operating history will make it difficult to borrow funds. The amount and nature of any borrowings by the Company will depend on numerous considerations, including the Company's capital requirements, the Company's perceived ability to meet debt service on any such borrowings and the then prevailing conditions in the financial markets, as well as general economic conditions. There can be no assurance that debt financing, if required or sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable by and in the best interests of the Company. The inability of the Company to borrow funds required to effect or facilitate a Transaction may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and future prospects. Additionally, to the extent that debt financing ultimately proves to be available, any borrowings may subject the Company to various risks traditionally associated with indebtedness, including the risks of interest rate fluctuations and insufficiency of cash flow to pay principal and interest. Furthermore, a Target may have already incurred borrowings and, therefore, the Company will be subjected to all the risks inherent thereto. 12 Competition for Transactions The Company expects to encounter intense competition from other entities having business objectives similar to those of the Company. Many of these entities, including venture capital partnerships and corporations, blind pool companies, large industrial and financial institutions, small business investment companies and wealthy individuals, are well-established and have extensive experience in connection with identifying and effecting Transactions directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than the Company and there can be no assurance that the Company will have the ability to compete successfully. The Company's financial resources will be limited in comparison to those of many of its competitors. This inherent competitive limitation may compel the Company to select certain less attractive acquisition prospects. There can be no assurance that such prospects will permit the Company to achieve its stated business objectives. The Company May Be Subject to Uncertainty in the Competitive Environment of a Target In the event that the Company succeeds in effecting a Transaction, the Company will, in all likelihood, become subject to intense competition from competitors of the Target. In particular, certain industries which experience rapid growth frequently attract an increasingly large number of competitors, including competitors with greater financial, marketing, technical, human and other resources than the initial competitors in the industry. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any prospective Target cannot presently be ascertained. There can be no assurance that, subsequent to a consummation of a Transaction, the Company will have the resources to compete effectively in the industry of the Target, especially to the extent that the Target is in a high growth industry. Transaction May Prevent or Limit the Company's Ability to Use Its Net Operating Tax Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2012 the Company had a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $11.9 million. The consummation of a Transaction by the Company may limit, reduce or void the utilization of the net operating losses. While the Company shall endeavor to complete a Transaction with a Target that will permit the Company to utilize its net operating losses, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to utilize its net operating losses after the consummation of a Transaction with a Target. Taxation Considerations May Impact the Structure of a Transaction and Post-Closing Liabilities Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations for the Company in consummating a Transaction. The structure of a Transaction or the distribution of securities to stockholders may result in taxation of the Company, the Target or stockholders. Typically, these transactions may be structured to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. The Company intends to structure any Transaction so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both the Company and the Target. Management cannot assure that a Transaction will meet the statutory requirements for a tax-free reorganization, or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes, which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. 13 Stockholders Risk Dilution In Connection with a Transaction The Company's Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 27, 2013, the Company had 7,446,593 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and 7,553,407 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. The Company has no commitments as of this date to issue its securities, however, the Company will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares in connection with or following a Transaction. To the extent that additional shares of common stock are issued, the Company's stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests in the Company. Additionally, if the Company issues a substantial number of shares of common stock in connection with or following a Transaction, a change in control of the Company may occur which may affect, among other things, the Company's ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards, if any. Furthermore, the issuance of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect prevailing market prices, if any, for the common stock and could impair the Company's ability to raise additional capital through the sale of its equity securities. The Company may use consultants and other third parties providing goods and services. These consultants or third parties may be paid in cash, stock, options or other securities of the Company. The Company may in the future need to raise additional funds by selling securities of the Company which may involve substantial additional dilution to the investors. General Risks Affecting the Company Bank Account Balances in Excess of FDIC Insurance On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 increased the insurance coverage offered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This limit is anticipated to return to $100,000 after December 31, 2013. Additionally, under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, amounts held in non-interest bearing transaction accounts at participating institutions are fully guaranteed by the FDIC through December 31, 2013. The Company had amounts in excess of $250,000 in a single bank during the year. Amounts over $250,000 are not insured by the FDIC. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had $6,380,474 and $7,525,771 respectively, in its JP Morgan Chase bank accounts. Accordingly, the Company does not have FDIC insurance for any amounts held at JP Morgan Chase in excess of $250,000. Steven N. Bronson is Critical to the Future Success of the Company Steven N. Bronson is the Chairman and President of the Company. The ability of the Company to successfully carry out its business plan and to consummate a Transaction will be dependent upon the efforts of Mr. Bronson and the Company's directors. Notwithstanding the significance of Mr. Bronson, the Company has not obtained any "key man" life insurance on his life. The loss of the services of Mr. Bronson could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to successfully achieve its business objectives. If additional personnel are required, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain such necessary additional personnel. Mr. Bronson Has Effective Control of the Company's Affairs As of March 27, 2013, Mr. Bronson beneficially owns and controls 3,744,329 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 50.3% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock and approximately 50.3% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. In the election of directors, stockholders are not entitled to cumulate their votes for nominees. Accordingly, as a practical matter, Mr. Bronson may be able to elect all of the Company's directors and otherwise direct the affairs of the Company. 14 There Exist Conflicts of Interest Relating to Mr. Bronson's Commitment to the Company Mr. Bronson is not required to commit his full time to the affairs of the Company. Mr. Bronson will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities. Additionally, Mr. Bronson is the president, director and principal shareholder of two publicly traded companies, 4net Software, Inc. and Ridgefield Acquisition Corp. that are also engaged in seeking to consummate a merger, acquisition or other business combination transaction. As a result, the consummation of an Acquisition may require a greater period of time than if Mr. Bronson devoted his full time to the Company's affairs. However, Mr. Bronson will devote such time as he deems reasonably necessary to carry out the business and affairs of the Company, including the evaluation of potential Targets and the negotiation and consummation of Acquisitions and, as a result, the amount of time devoted to the business and affairs of the Company may vary significantly depending upon, among other things, whether the Company has identified a Target or is engaged in active negotiation and consummation of an Acquisition. Indemnification of Officers and Directors The Company's Certificate of Incorporation provides for the Indemnification of its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware. It is possible that the indemnification obligations imposed under these provisions could result in a charge against the Company's earnings and thereby affect the availability of funds for other uses by the Company. The Company May Be Deemed an Investment Company and Subjected to Related Restrictions The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act"), which was enacted principally for the purpose of regulating vehicles for pooled investments in securities, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The 1940 Act may, however, also be deemed to be applicable to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities which may be deemed to be within the definitional scope of certain provisions of the 1940 Act. We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the 1940 Act because the nature of our assets and the sources of our income exclude us from the definition of an investment company under the 1940 Act. In addition, we believe our Company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We intend to continue to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. If we were to be deemed an investment company, the Company may be forced to divest its investments or become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company's activities, including restrictions on the nature of its investments and the issuance of securities. In addition, the Investment Company Act imposes certain requirements on companies deemed to be within its regulatory scope, including registration as an investment company, adoption of a specific form of corporate structure and compliance with certain burdensome reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event of the characterization of the Company as an investment company, the failure by the Company to satisfy such regulatory requirements, whether on a timely basis or at all, would, under certain circumstances, have a material adverse effect on the Company. 15 Investors Should Not Rely on Forward-Looking Statements Because They Are Inherently Uncertain This document contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "future," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this document. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described on the preceding pages and elsewhere in this document. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our investors. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed above, as well as any cautionary language in this document, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this document could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. 