Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks, among others, sometimes have affected, and in the future could affect, BKF’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones facing BKF. Additional risks not presently known to BKF or that BKF currently deems insignificant may also impact its business. The ability of BKF to continue as an operating company and a going concern is dependent on its ability to consummate a merger or an acquisition and/or to raise additional capital. The Company’s available options include merging with or acquiring a third party or liquidating. The Company has no pending transactions. Any such transaction will be subject to identifying suitable business and negotiating definitive agreements. Furthermore, any definitive agreement could be subject to various conditions, including regulatory approvals. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effect any such transaction. Furthermore, although the Company’s cash position is sufficient to allow it to operate for a protracted period, the Company believes that it will need to raise debt or equity capital to finance any such transaction. The ability to raise additional capital is subject to market conditions, the willingness of investors to invest in a new or startup business and other factors. Furthermore, certain common stock offerings may require stockholder approval. Also, an equity or rights offering could be dilutive to the existing stockholders of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise any additional capital on favorable terms at all. If the Company is unable to effect a transaction or to raise additional capital, the Company would expect to be dissolved and liquidated. Furthermore, even if a transaction or financing occurs, the terms of the transaction or financing may not be favorable to the Company and its stockholders and could result in a decline in the stock price of the Company. If we do complete a merger or other transaction you may not have basis on which to assess the merits of the acquired business. Since we have not yet identified a potential target or business partner, investors have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target or business’ operations. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we can not assure you that we will properly or assess all of the significant risk factors and accordingly, you may lose your investment in the Company. 3 Table of Contents If the Company is liquidated, the stockholders of the Company may not receive cash proceeds equal to the current stock price or book value of the Company. If the Company is dissolved and liquidated, the creditors of the Company will be paid prior to any distribution to the stockholders. Furthermore, the Company expects to reserve a significant portion of its cash to pay for future liabilities, such as rental expenses, employment termination costs and other contractual obligations and contingencies. As a result, the cash remaining to be distributed to stockholders is expected to be significantly less than the Company’s current cash position and could be less than the stock price or book value of the Company. BKF’s ability to consider strategic alternatives and to make investments in new businesses will be limited by the terms of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Any Company primarily that engaged in the business of investing reinvesting, or trading or holding securities is an investment company subject to the registration and other regulatory requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”). The Company’s primary business is investment advising and asset management. The significant reduction in its asset under management has substantially reduced BKF’s assets, with the remaining assets being concentrated in cash and cash equivalents and U.S. treasury bills. The Company does not believe it is an investment company and has no intent to become an investment company. Therefore, as a protective measure, the Company intends to rely upon Rule 3a-2 under the 1940 Act. Under 3a-2, a company that has a bona fide intent to be engaged in a business other than that of an investment company may avoid being classified and regulated as an investment company for up to a year. After that one-year period, which ends June 30, 2007, the Company must either not be an investment company, be exempt from the provisions of the 1940 Act or register as an investment Company and become subject to 1940 Act regulation. (The Company may also seek an order from the SEC requesting that the one-year period be extended. There can be no assurance that the SEC would grant such an order). As a result, the Company’s ability to consider strategic alternatives over an extended period will be limited. In addition, the 1940 Act restricts the ability of the Company to make non-controlling investments. Therefore, the Company’s ability to consider different types of strategic alternatives and to determine how to use its cash position will be subject to certain limitations imposed by the 1940 Act. BKF’s Common Stock has been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange On August 29, 2006, the Company’s common stock was delisted from the NYSE. The Company originally appealed this decision but on November 1, 2006 withdrew its appeal as a result of the failure to find a suitable transaction that would have allowed it to meet the NYSE’s continued listing standards. Currently, the Company’s common stock trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board (“OTCBB”). Even though the Company’s common stock continues trading on the OTCBB, the Company cannot ensure you that the market for its common stock will be as liquid as it had been on the NYSE, which can make the market price for the Company’s common stock more volatile than it had been historically. Additionally, being traded on the OTCBB could reduce the ability of holders of the Company’s common stock to purchase or sell the Company’s common stock as quickly and inexpensively as they had been able to when the Company was listed on the NYSE. Lastly, the lack of liquidity also could make it more difficult for the Company to raise capital in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 