Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Potential investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision concerning the common stock of the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. The Company Has Limited Resources The Company currently does not have any operating business. Except for a limited revenue stream from a fee sharing agreement with a departed portfolio manager, the Company has had no revenues from operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company's plan of operations is to consummate an acquisition or merger or other business combination (a "Transaction") with a viable business entity (a "Target"). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate a Transaction, nor can there be any assurance that any Target, at the time of the Company's consummation of a Transaction of the Target, or at any time thereafter, will derive any material revenues from its operations or operate on a profitable basis. The current assets of the Company may not be sufficient to fund a Transaction. Based on the Company's limited resources, the Company may not be able to effectuate its business plan and consummate a Transaction. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by the Company will permit the Company to achieve its business objectives. 3 The Company May Need Additional Financing in Order to Execute Its Business Plan The Company has limited resources. The Company cannot ascertain with any degree of certainty the capital requirements for the execution of its business plan to consummate a Transaction. In the event that the Company's limited financial resources prove to be insufficient to implement its business plan, the Company may be required to seek additional financing. In addition, in the event of the consummation of a Transaction, the Company may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the Target. Additional Financing May Not Be Available to the Company There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed, the Company would be limited in its attempts to complete Transactions. The inability of the Company to secure additional financing, if needed, could also have a material adverse effect on the continued existence of BKF. The Company has no arrangements with any bank or financial institution to secure financing and there can be no assurance that any such arrangement, if required or otherwise sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable and in the best interests of the Company. The Company May Not Be Able to Borrow Funds While there currently are no limitations on the Company's ability to borrow funds, the limited resources of the Company and limited operating history will make it difficult to borrow funds. The amount and nature of any borrowings by the Company will depend on numerous considerations, including the Company's capital requirements, the Company's perceived ability to meet debt service on any such borrowings and the then prevailing conditions in the financial markets, as well as general economic conditions. There can be no assurance that debt financing, if required or sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable by and in the best interests of the Company. The inability of the Company to borrow funds required to effect or facilitate a Transaction may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and future prospects. Additionally, to the extent that debt financing ultimately proves to be available, any borrowings may subject the Company to various risks traditionally associated with indebtedness, including the risks of interest rate fluctuations and insufficiency of cash flow to pay principal and interest. Furthermore, a Target may have already incurred borrowings and, therefore, the Company will be subjected to all the risks inherent thereto. Competition for Transactions The Company expects to encounter intense competition from other entities having business objectives similar to those of the Company. Many of these entities, including venture capital partnerships and corporations, blind pool companies, large industrial and financial institutions, small business investment companies and wealthy individuals, are well-established and have extensive experience in connection with identifying and effecting Transactions directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than the Company and there can be no assurance that the Company will have the ability to compete successfully. The Company's financial resources will be limited in comparison to those of many of its competitors. This inherent competitive limitation may compel the Company to select certain less attractive acquisition prospects. There can be no assurance that such prospects will permit the Company to achieve its stated business objectives. 4 The Company May Be Subject to Uncertainty in the Competitive Environment of a Target In the event that the Company succeeds in effecting a Transaction, the Company will, in all likelihood, become subject to intense competition from competitors of the Target. In particular, certain industries which experience rapid growth frequently attract an increasingly large number of competitors, including competitors with greater financial, marketing, technical, human and other resources than the initial competitors in the industry. The degree of competition characterizing the industry of any prospective Target cannot presently be ascertained. There can be no assurance that, subsequent to a consummation of a Transaction, the Company will have the resources to compete effectively in the industry of the Target, especially to the extent that the Target is in a high growth industry. Transaction May Prevent or Limit the Company's Ability to Use Its Net Operating Tax Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2010 the Company had a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $10.4 million. The consummation of a Transaction by the Company may limit, reduce or void the utilization of the net operating losses. While the Company shall endeavor to complete a Transaction with a Target that will permit the Company to utilize its net operating losses, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to utilize its net operating losses after the consummation of a Transaction with a Target. Taxation Considerations May Impact the Structure of a Transaction and Post-Closing Liabilities Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations for the Company in consummating a Transaction. The structure of a Transaction or the distribution of securities to stockholders may result in taxation of the Company, the Target or stockholders. Typically, these transactions may be structured to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. The Company intends to structure any Transaction so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both the Company and the Target. Management cannot assure that a Transaction will meet the statutory requirements for a tax-free reorganization, or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes, which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. Bank Account Balances in Excess of FDIC Insurance On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 increased the insurance coverage offered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This limit is anticipated to return to $100,000 after December 31, 2013. Additionally, under the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, amounts held in non-interest bearing transaction accounts at participating institutions are fully guaranteed by the FDIC through December 31, 2013. The Company had amounts in excess of $250,000 in a single bank during the year. Amounts over $250,000 are not insured by the FDIC. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had $4,581,571 and $1,370,858, respectively, in its Bank of America bank accounts. Accordingly, the Company does not have FDIC insurance for any amounts held at Bank of America in excess of $250,000. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had $3,506,203 and $0, respectively, in its JP Morgan Chase bank accounts. Accordingly, the Company does not have FDIC insurance for any amounts held at JP Morgan Chase in excess of $250,000. 5 Steven N. Bronson is Critical to the Future Success of the Company Steven N. Bronson is the Chairman and President of the Company. The ability of the Company to successfully carry out its business plan and to consummate a Transaction will be dependent upon the efforts of Mr. Bronson and the Company's directors. Notwithstanding the significance of Mr. Bronson, the Company has not obtained any "key man" life insurance on his life. The loss of the services of Mr. Bronson could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to successfully achieve its business objectives. If additional personnel are required, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain such necessary additional personnel. Mr. Bronson Has Effective Control of the Company's Affairs As of March 28, 2011, Mr. Bronson beneficially owns and controls 3,333,269 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 42% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock and approximately 42% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. In the election of directors, stockholders are not entitled to cumulate their votes for nominees. Accordingly, as a practical matter, Mr. Bronson may be able to elect all of the Company's directors and otherwise direct the affairs of the Company. There Exist Conflicts of Interest Relating to Mr. Bronson's Commitment to the Company Mr. Bronson is not required to commit his full time to the affairs of the Company. Mr. Bronson will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities. Additionally, Mr. Bronson is the president, director and principal shareholder of two publicly traded companies, 4net Software, Inc. and Ridgefield Acquisition Corp. that are also engaged in seeking to consummate a merger, acquisition or other business combination transaction. As a result, the consummation of an Acquisition may require a greater period of time than if Mr. Bronson devoted his full time to the Company's affairs. However, Mr. Bronson will devote such time as he deems reasonably necessary to carry out the business and affairs of the Company, including the evaluation of potential Targets and the negotiation and consummation of Acquisitions and, as a result, the amount of time devoted to the business and affairs of the Company may vary significantly depending upon, among other things, whether the Company has identified a Target or is engaged in active negotiation and consummation of an Acquisition. Indemnification of Officers and Directors The Company's Certificate of Incorporation provides for the Indemnification of its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware. It is possible that the indemnification obligations imposed under these provisions could result in a charge against the Company's earnings and thereby affect the availability of funds for other uses by the Company. 6 Stockholders Risk Dilution In Connection with a Transaction The Company's Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 28, 2011, the Company had 7,973,216 shares of common stock issued and 7,446,593 shares outstanding and 7,026,784 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. The Company has no commitments as of this date to issue its securities, however, the Company will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares in connection with or following a Transaction. To the extent that additional shares of common stock are issued, the Company's stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests in the Company. Additionally, if the Company issues a substantial number of shares of common stock in connection with or following a Transaction, a change in control of the Company may occur which may affect, among other things, the Company's ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards, if any. Furthermore, the issuance of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect prevailing market prices, if any, for the common stock and could impair the Company's ability to raise additional capital through the sale of its equity securities. The Company may use consultants and other third parties providing goods and services. These consultants or third parties may be paid in cash, stock, options or other securities of the Company. The Company may in the future need to raise additional funds by selling securities of the Company which may involve substantial additional dilution to the investors. The Company May Be Deemed an Investment Company and Subjected to Related Restrictions The regulatory scope of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"), which was enacted principally for the purpose of regulating vehicles for pooled investments in securities, extends generally to companies engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The Investment Company Act may, however, also be deemed to be applicable to a company which does not intend to be characterized as an investment company but which, nevertheless, engages in activities which may be deemed to be within the definitional scope of certain provisions of the Investment Company Act. The Company believes that its investment strategy may subject the Company to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If the Company is deemed to be an investment company, the Company may be forced to divest its investments or become subject to certain restrictions relating to the Company's activities, including restrictions on the nature of its investments and the issuance of securities. In addition, the Investment Company Act imposes certain requirements on companies deemed to be within its regulatory scope, including registration as an investment company, adoption of a specific form of corporate structure and compliance with certain burdensome reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, disclosure and other rules and regulations. In the event of the characterization of the Company as an investment company, the failure by the Company to satisfy such regulatory requirements, whether on a timely basis or at all, would, under certain circumstances, have a material adverse effect on the Company. 7 Investors Should Not Rely on Forward-Looking Statements Because They Are Inherently Uncertain This document contains certain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "future," "intend," "plan," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this document. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described on the preceding pages and elsewhere in this document. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our investors. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed above, as well as any cautionary language in this document, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this document could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. 