Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors described in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Our revenues, expenses and the value of our hotels are subject to conditions affecting both the real estate and lodging industries.Real estate investments are subject to numerous risks. Our investment in hotels is subject to numerous risks generally associated with owning real estate, including among others:•general economic conditions, including unemployment rates, major bank failures, unsettled capital markets and sovereign debt uncertainty;•changes in international, national, regional and local economic climate and real estate market conditions;•changes in zoning laws;•changes in traffic patterns and neighborhood characteristics;•increases in assessed property taxes from changes in valuation and real estate tax rates;•increases in the cost of property insurance;•potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;•costly governmental regulations and fiscal policies;•changes in tax laws; and•other circumstances beyond our control.Moreover, real estate investments are substantially illiquid, and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in a timely manner to respond to changes in economic and other conditions.Investing in hotel assets involves special risks. We have invested in hotels and related assets, and our hotels are subject to all the risks common to the hotel industry. These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy, operating costs and rates that can be charged for hotel rooms, and generally include:•changes in business and leisure travel patterns;•decreases in demand for hotel rooms;•increases in lodging supply or competition, which may adversely affect demand at our hotels;•the effect of geopolitical disturbances, including terrorist attacks and terror alerts, that reduce business and leisure travel;•the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels;•fluctuations in our revenue caused by the seasonal nature of the hotel industry;•unionization of the labor force at our hotels;•the threat or outbreak of a pandemic disease affecting the travel industry;•increasing fuel costs and other travel expenses resulting in reductions of travel; and•increased transportation security precautions affecting the travel industry.We are subject to risks inherent to hotel operations. We have ownership interest in the operating lessees of our hotels; consequently, we are subject to the risk of fluctuating hotel operating expenses at our hotels, including but not limited to:•increases in operating expenses due to inflation;•wage and benefit costs, including hotels that employ unionized labor;•repair and maintenance expenses;•gas and electricity costs;•insurance costs including health, general liability and workers compensation; and•other operating expenses. 10We could face increased competition. Each of our hotels competes with other hotels in its geographic area. A number of additional hotel rooms have been, or may be, built in a number of the geographic areas in which our hotels are located, which could adversely affect both occupancy and rates in those markets. A significant increase in the supply of upscale and upper-upscale hotel rooms, or if demand fails to increase at least proportionately, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The lodging business is seasonal in nature. Generally, hotel revenues for our hotel portfolio are greater in the second and third calendar quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters, although this may not be true for hotels in major tourist destinations. Revenues for hotels in tourist areas are generally substantially greater during tourist season than other times of the year. We expect that seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels will cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues.Compliance with environmental laws may adversely affect our financial condition. Owners of real estate are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Under these laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real estate may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances found on its property, whether or not they were responsible for its presence. In addition, if an owner of real property arranges for the disposal of hazardous substances at another site, it may also be liable for the costs of remediating the disposal site, even if it did not own or operate the disposal site. Such liability may be imposed without regard to fault or the legality of a party’s conduct and may, in certain circumstances, be joint and several. A property owner may also be liable to third parties for personal injuries or property damage sustained as a result of its release of hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos-containing materials, into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations may require us to incur substantial expenses and limit the use of our properties. We could have substantial liability for a failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, which may be enforced by the government or, in certain instances, by private parties. The existence of hazardous substances on a property can also adversely affect the value of, and the owner’s ability to use, sell or borrow against the property.We cannot provide assurances that future or amended laws or regulations, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement of existing environmental requirements, will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the environmental condition or liability relating to our hotels will not be affected by new information or changed circumstances, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of such hotels, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by the actions of unrelated third parties.Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act may adversely affect our financial condition. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, (the “ADA”), all public accommodations, including hotels, are required to meet certain federal requirements for access and use by disabled persons. Various state and local jurisdictions have also adopted requirements relating to the accessibility of buildings to disabled persons. We make every reasonable effort to ensure that our hotels substantially comply with the requirements of the ADA and other applicable laws. However, we could be liable for both governmental fines and payments to private parties if it were determined that our hotels are not in compliance with these laws. We also may be subject to future changes in these laws. If we were required to make unanticipated major modifications to our hotels to comply with the requirements of the ADA and similar laws, it could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to satisfy our other obligations. 11System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or service provided to guests at our hotels, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage the reputation of our hotels and adversely affect our stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security or the network security of our third-party managers and franchisors, and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of our hotel guests, create system disruptions or cause the shutdown of our hotels. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our computer systems or the computer systems operated by our third-party managers and franchisors, or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our respective networks. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we and our third-party managers or franchisors may procure from outside companies may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with our internal operations or the operations at our hotels. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential business at our hotels. Portions of our information technology infrastructure or the information technology infrastructure of our third-party managers and franchisors also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We or our third-party managers and franchisors may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact the ability of our third-party managers and franchisors to fulfill reservations for guestrooms and other services offered at our hotels. Delayed sales or bookings, lower margins or lost guest reservations resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and the reputation of our hotels.We seek to minimize the impact of these attacks through various technologies, processes and practices designed to protect our networks, systems, computers and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access. However, there are no guarantees that our cyber-security practices will be sufficient to thwart all attacks. While we carry property, business interruption, and cyber risk insurance, we may not be sufficiently compensated for all losses we may incur. These losses include not only a loss of revenues but also potential litigation, fines or regulatory action against us. Furthermore, we may also incur substantial remediation costs to repair system damage as well as satisfy liabilities for stolen assets or information that may further reduce our profits.If we (or our managers) fail to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations, we could be subject to payment of fines, damages or face restrictions on our use of guest data. Our managers collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. Collecting and using personal data is governed by U.S. and other privacy laws and regulations. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our managers’ ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us (including our managers)), or a breach of security in systems storing privacy data, may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our (or our managers’) use or transfer of data.Future terrorist activities and political instability may adversely affect, and create uncertainty in, our business. Terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could have an adverse effect on our business, although the degree of impact will depend on a number of factors, including the U.S. and global economies and global financial markets. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent 12terrorism alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries in the past. Such attacks, or the threat of such attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties, and/or our results of operations and financial condition, as a whole.We face reduced insurance coverages and increasing premiums. Our property insurance has a $100,000 “all‑risk” deductible, as well as a 5% deductible (insured value) for named windstorm and California earthquake coverage. Substantial uninsured or not fully-insured losses would have a material adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Catastrophic losses, such as the losses caused by hurricanes in 2005, could make the cost of insuring against these types of losses prohibitively expensive or difficult to find. In an effort to limit the cost of insurance, we purchase catastrophic insurance coverage based on probable maximum losses based on 250-year events and have only purchased terrorism insurance to the extent required by our lenders or franchisors. We have established a self-insured retention of $250,000 per occurrence for general liability insurance with regard to 37 of our hotels. The remainder of our hotels participate in general liability programs sponsored by our managers, with no deductible.We could have uninsured or under-insured property losses. Our property policies provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded. Therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached, and each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. We may incur losses in excess of insured limits, and as a result, we may be even less likely to receive sufficient coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes or catastrophic terrorist acts. Risks such as war, catastrophic terrorist acts, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attacks, and some environmental hazards may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against.We may also encounter disputes concerning whether an insurance provider will pay a particular claim that we believe is covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.We obtain terrorism insurance to the extent required by lenders or franchisors as a part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors’ and officers’ policies. However, our all-risk policies have limitations, such as per occurrence limits and sub-limits, that might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. Also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, for “certified” acts of terrorism - namely those that are committed on behalf of non-United States persons or interests. Furthermore, we do not have full replacement coverage at all of our hotels for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of United States persons or interests (“non-certified” events) as our coverage for such incidents is subject to sub-limits and/or annual aggregate limits. In addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. While TRIA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, TRIA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. Additionally, Congress may not renew TRIA in the future, which would eliminate the federal subsidy for terrorism losses. As a result of the above, the 13extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available in the future to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties is uncertain.We have geographic concentrations that may create risks from regional or local economic, seismic or weather conditions. At December 31, 2014, approximately 60% of our hotel rooms were located in, and 61% of our 2014 Hotel EBITDA was generated from, three states: California (34% of our hotel rooms and 35% of our Hotel EBITDA); Florida (15% of our hotel rooms and 15% of our Hotel EBITDA); and Texas (11% of our hotel rooms and 11% of our Hotel EBITDA). Additionally, at December 31, 2014, we had concentrations in five major metropolitan areas which together represented approximately 43% of our Hotel EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2014 (the San Francisco Bay area (17%), Boston (9%), South Florida (7%), Los Angeles area (5%), and Myrtle Beach (5%)). Therefore, adverse economic, seismic or weather conditions in these states or metropolitan areas may have a greater adverse effect on us than on the industry as a whole.Transfers and/or termination of franchise licenses and management agreements may be prohibited or restricted. Hotel managers and franchise licensors may have the right to terminate their agreements or suspend their services in the event of default under such agreements or other third-party agreements such as ground leases and mortgages, upon the loss of liquor licenses, or in the event of the sale or transfer of the hotel. Franchise licenses may expire by their terms, and we may not be able to obtain replacement franchise license agreements.If a management agreement or franchise license were terminated, under certain circumstances (such as the sale of a hotel), we could be liable for liquidated damages (which may be guaranteed by us or certain of our subsidiaries). In addition, we may need to obtain a different franchise and/or engage a different manager, and the costs and disruption associated with those changes could be significant (and materially adverse to the value of the affected hotel) because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchise licensor or operations management provided by the manager. Additionally, most of our management agreements restrict our ability to encumber our interests in the applicable hotels under certain circumstances without the managers’ consent, which can make it more difficult to obtain secured financing on acceptable terms.We are subject to possible adverse effects of management, franchise and license agreement requirements. All of our hotels are operated under existing management, franchise or license agreements with nationally recognized hotel companies. Each agreement requires that the licensed hotel be maintained and operated in accordance with specific brand standards and restrictions. Compliance with these standards, and changes in these standards, could require us to incur significant expenses or capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and service our debt.We are subject to the risks of brand concentration. We are subject to the potential risks associated with the concentration of our hotels under a limited number of brands. A negative public image or other adverse event that becomes associated with the brand could adversely affect hotels operated under that brand. If any brands under which we operate hotels suffer a significant decline in appeal to the traveling public, the revenues and profitability of our branded hotels could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2014, approximately 23 hotels comprising 46% of our aggregate rooms were flagged as Embassy Suites, and we derived approximately 48% of our 2014 Hotel EBITDA from those hotels. If revenue declines faster than operating expenses, our margins may shrink materially. We are subject to the risks of a decline in Hotel EBITDA margins, which occur when hotel operating expenses increase disproportionately to revenues or fail to shrink at least as fast as revenues decline. These operating expenses and Hotel EBITDA margins are controlled by our third-party managers over whom we have limited influence. 14The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through Internet travel intermediaries. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us and our management companies. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to the brands under which our hotels are franchised. If the amount of sales made through Internet travel intermediaries increases significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected.We have substantial financial leverage.At December 31, 2014, our consolidated debt ($1.6 billion) represented approximately 51% of our total enterprise value. Declining revenues and cash flow may adversely affect our public debt ratings and may limit our access to additional debt. Historically, we have incurred debt for acquisitions and to fund our renovation, redevelopment and rebranding programs. If our access to additional debt financing is limited, our ability to fund these programs or acquire hotels in the future could be adversely affected. Also, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. Financial leverage, while efficient and useful, could have negative consequences. For example, it could:•limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, renovation, redevelopment and rebranding plans, acquisitions, debt service requirements and other purposes;•limit our ability to refinance existing debt;•limit our ability to pay dividends, invest in unconsolidated joint ventures, etc.;•require us to agree to additional restrictions and limitations on our business operations and capital structure to obtain financing;•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and to interest rate fluctuations;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for capital expenditures, future business opportunities, paying dividends or other purposes;•limit our flexibility to make, or react to, changes in our business and our industry; and•place us at a competitive disadvantage, compared to our competitors that have less leverage.Compliance with, or failure to comply with, our financial covenants may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.The agreements governing our senior secured notes require that we satisfy total leverage, secured leverage and interest coverage tests in order, among other things, to: (i) incur certain additional indebtedness except to refinance maturing debt with replacement debt, as defined under our indentures; (ii) pay dividends other than to maintain FelCor’s REIT status; (iii) repurchase FelCor’s capital stock; or (iv) merge. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. Various political, economic, social or business risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and financial thresholds. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default could permit 15lenders to accelerate the maturity of obligations under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing those obligations. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions could significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Certain of our subsidiaries have been formed as special purpose entities, or SPEs. These SPEs have incurred mortgage debt secured by the assets of those SPEs, which debt is non-recourse to us, except in connection with certain customary recourse “carve-outs,” including fraud, misapplication of funds, etc., in which case this debt could become fully recourse to us. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our debt or preferred stock.We are currently party to agreements and instruments that can restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our common and preferred stock (except as necessary to retain REIT status). Under the agreements governing our senior secured notes, dividend payments are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, we can satisfy certain financial thresholds (concerning leverage and fixed charges) and meet other requirements. Under the terms of our outstanding preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued preferred dividends then payable have been paid. While our preferred dividends are current, if we fail to pay future dividends on our preferred stock for any reason, including to comply with the terms of our senior secured notes, our preferred dividends will accrue, and we will be prohibited from paying any common dividends until all such accrued but unpaid preferred dividends have been paid.Our debt agreements will allow us to incur additional debt that, if incurred, could exacerbate the other risks described herein.We may incur substantial debt in the future. Although the instruments governing our debt contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we add incremental debt, the leverage-related risks described above would intensify.We may be unable to execute our deleveraging strategy successfully if we are unable to sell non-strategic hotels when anticipated, or at all, or sell them for satisfactory pricing or if we are unable to grow our cash flow. Our ability to sell hotels is at least partially dependent on potential buyers obtaining financing. If adequate financing is not available or is only available at undesirable terms, we may be unable to sell hotels or sell them for desired pricing. If we are unable to sell non-strategic hotels or sell them for desired pricing, it could affect our ability to repay and refinance debt and slow the execution of our strategic plan. If we sell a mortgaged hotel for less than its outstanding debt balance, we would be required to use cash to make up the shortfall or substitute an unencumbered hotel as collateral, which would restrict future flexibility when refinancing debt or restrict us from using cash for other purposes. Similarly, if we are unsuccessful in growing the cash flow at our core hotels, our deleveraging strategy could be frustrated.We depend on external sources of capital for future growth, and we may be unable to access capital when necessary.As a REIT, our ability to finance our growth must largely be funded by external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gains) including, in some cases, taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. Our ability to obtain the external capital 16we require could be limited by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our future prospects, lower current and/or estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or a lower market price for our common stock.Our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing debt, which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. Any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our future cash flow from operations and external sources of capital are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. Failing to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. We may have only a limited number of unencumbered hotels and limited resources to raise additional capital or we may have difficulties obtaining consent of an applicable lessor on any of our hotels subject to a ground lease. Departure of key personnel would deprive us of the institutional knowledge, expertise and leadership they provide.Our executive management team includes our President and Chief Executive Officer, and four Executive Vice Presidents. In addition, we have several other long-tenured senior officers. These executives and officers generally possess institutional knowledge about our organization and the hospitality or real estate industries, have significant expertise in their fields, and possess leadership skills that are important to our operations. The loss of any of our executives or other long-tenured officers could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy.As a REIT, we are subject to specific tax laws and regulations, the violation of which could subject us to significant tax liabilities.The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complicated, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we have been, or will continue to be, successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT.The federal income tax laws governing REITs are subject to change. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. These new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal income tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. Any of these new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us, or you as a stockholder.Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. Each year, a REIT must pay out to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% non-deductible tax if the actual amount we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. Our only source of funds to make such distributions comes from distributions from FelCor LP. Accordingly, we may be required to borrow money or sell assets to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% tax in a particular year. 17Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) for such taxable year and may not qualify as a REIT for four subsequent years. We might need to borrow money or sell hotels in order to obtain the funds necessary to pay any such tax. If we cease to be a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was excused under federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify.We lack control over the management and operations of our hotels. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels, we do not manage our hotels. Instead, we are dependent on the ability of third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions for the operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, the salary and benefits provided to hotel employees, the conduct of food and beverage operations and similar matters. While our taxable REIT subsidiaries monitor the third-party manager’s performance, we have limited specific recourse under our management agreements if we believe the third-party managers are not performing adequately. Failure by our third-party managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our third-party managers, or their affiliates, manage hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our third-party managers may have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests.Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo attractive opportunities that could otherwise generate strong risk-adjusted returns and instead pursue less attractive opportunities, or none at all.To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for our stockholders.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could result in an overall loss on our investments.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, the REIT statutes provide a means to cure the exception. If we are unable to cure the exception we may be subject to an additional tax. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.We may become subject to a 100% excise tax if our TRSs pay us excessive rent. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could challenge the rents paid to us by our TRSs, as excessive, and a court could reach a similar conclusion. In either event, we could be taxed at 100% of the amount of rents determined to be excessive. There can be no assurance that we will not be subjected 18to that excise tax. If we are, and if the amount is material, our liquidity and ability to service our debt and pay dividends could be materially and adversely affected.We own, and may acquire, interests in hotel joint ventures with third parties that expose us to some risk of additional liabilities or capital requirements.Through our subsidiaries, we own interests in several real estate joint ventures. Our unconsolidated joint ventures owned three hotels, in which we had a $15.1 million aggregate investment at December 31, 2014. We include the lessee operations of two of these three hotels in our consolidated results of operations because we own majority interests in the lessees. All of our joint venture partners are unaffiliated with us. The joint ventures owned hotels that secured $34.2 million of non-recourse loans at December 31, 2014.Our subsidiaries’ personal liability for existing non-recourse loans secured by our joint venture hotels is generally limited to guarantying the lender’s losses caused by misconduct, fraud or misappropriation of funds by the borrowers and other customary “bad boy” exceptions from the non-recourse covenants in the loans, (e.g., environmental liabilities). We may invest in other joint ventures in the future that own hotels and have recourse or non-recourse debt financing. If a joint venture defaults under a loan, the lender may accelerate the loan and demand payment in full before taking action to foreclose on the hotel. As a joint venturer, our subsidiary may be liable for claims asserted against the joint venture (including lenders’ claims for repayment), and the joint venture may have insufficient assets or insurance to cover the liability.Our subsidiaries may be unable to control decisions unilaterally regarding these joint venture hotels. In addition, joint venture hotels may perform at levels below expectations, raising concerns about joint venture liquidity and solvency unless the joint venturers provide additional funds. In some cases, the joint venturers may elect to forgo additional capital contributions. We may be confronted with the choice of losing our investment or investing additional capital with no guaranty of any return on that investment.Our charter limits ownership and transferring shares of our stock, which could adversely affect attempted transfers of our capital stock.To maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, under the applicable tax rules, by five or fewer persons during the last half of any taxable year. Our charter prohibits, subject to some exceptions, any person from owning more than 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of any class of our stock. Our charter also prohibits any transfer of our stock that would result in a violation of the 9.9% ownership limit, reduce the number of stockholders below 100 or otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. Any attempted transfer of shares in violation of the charter prohibitions is void, and the intended transferee acquires no right to those shares. We have the right to take any lawful action that we believe is necessary or advisable to ensure compliance with these ownership and transfer restrictions and to preserve our status as a REIT, including refusing to recognize any transfer of stock in violation of our charter.Some provisions in our charter and bylaws and Maryland law make a takeover more difficult.Ownership Limit. The ownership and transfer restrictions of our charter may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a third party from attempting to gain control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, it is less likely that a change in control, even if beneficial to stockholders, could be effected without the approval of our Board.Staggered Board. Our charter provides that our Board is divided into three classes. Directors in each class are elected for terms of three years. As a result, the ability of stockholders to effect a change in 19control of us through the election of new directors is limited by the inability of stockholders to elect a majority of our Board at any particular meeting.Authority to Issue Additional Shares. Under our charter, our board may issue up to an aggregate of 20 million shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. The preferred stock may be issued, in one or more series, with the preferences and other terms designated by our board that may delay or prevent a change in control of us, even if the change is in the best interests of stockholders. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding 12,879,475 shares of our Series A preferred stock and 67,980 shares, represented by 6,798,000 depositary shares, of our Series C preferred stock.Maryland Law. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various provisions under the Maryland General Corporation Law, including the Maryland Business Combination Act, that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of stockholders. Under the Maryland business combination statute, some “business combinations,” including some issuances of equity securities, between a Maryland corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares, or an affiliate of that stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Any of these business combinations must be approved by a stockholder vote meeting two separate super majority requirements, unless, among other conditions, the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the statute, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its common shares. Our charter currently provides that the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act will not apply to any of our existing or future stock. That statute may deny voting rights to shares involved in an acquisition of one-tenth or more of the voting stock of a Maryland corporation. To the extent these or other laws are applicable to us, they may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even though beneficial to our stockholders.In addition, under the Maryland General Corporation Law, unless prohibited by charter or resolution (which we are not), our Board can elect by resolution without stockholder approval to be subject to certain corporate governance provisions that may be inconsistent with our charter and bylaws. Under Sections 8-301 through 8-305 of that statute, our Board may adopt corporate governance provisions (including, conditions to action by written consent, classification of directors, prerequisites for calling special meetings of stockholders, etc.) that may, individually or in the aggregate, affect board structure or stockholders’ ability to alter corporate policies directly, or may delay or prevent a strategic transaction or a change in control.Our directors may have interests that may conflict with our interests.A director who has a conflict of interest with respect to an issue presented to our Board will have no inherent legal obligation to abstain from voting upon that issue. We do not have provisions in our bylaws or charter that require an interested director to abstain from voting upon an issue, and we do not expect to add provisions in our charter and bylaws to this effect. Although each director has a duty of loyalty to us, there is a risk that, should an interested director vote upon an issue in which a director or one of his or her affiliates has an interest, his or her vote may reflect a bias that could be contrary to our best interests. In addition, even if an interested director abstains from voting, that director’s participation in the meeting and discussion of an issue in which they have, or companies with which he or she is associated have, an interest could influence the votes of other directors regarding the issue.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 20