Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements and analyses contained in this report, in our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, or that may in the future be made by, or be attributable to, us, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate" or "continue" or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. All of such forward-looking statements are based upon present expectations and assumptions that may or may not actually occur. The following factors constitute cautionary statements identifying important factors, including material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such forward-looking statements or in our historical results. Each of the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our ability to meet the current expectations of management. We depend on external sources of capital and recent disruptions in the financial markets may affect our ability to obtain financing or obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms. As a REIT our ability to reduce our debt and finance our growth must largely be funded by external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gains) including, in some cases, taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. Our ability to obtain the external capital we require could be limited by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our future prospects, lower current and/or estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or a lower market price for our common stock. The financial markets, and specifically the credit markets, have experienced significant contraction and dysfunction in the face of the continuing recession. When the financial markets are constrained – in particular, when the availability of credit is severely diminished – our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or to extend maturing loans has been substantially limited. Under such conditions, when financing is available, it has been more expensive and likely includes other terms, such as lower loan-to-value ratios, limitations or prohibitions of subordinated secured debt, minimum debt service coverage, etc., that are more restrictive. In addition, as loan default rates increase (as they have recently), lenders impose more restrictive underwriting criteria and tighten appraisal standards, further limiting credit availability. Although we have successfully refinanced some of our maturing loans under these more expensive and restrictive terms, we have various other loans that will mature in 2010, and in order to refinance those loans, adequate credit on reasonable terms must be available. With regard to 11 refinancing our maturing debt, our alternatives are severely limited compared to refinancing in prior years. If credit is only available at unacceptable cost or otherwise requires the application of resources that unacceptably constrains our liquidity, we may be unable to refinance maturing loans on acceptable or reasonable terms. Under current circumstances, there can be no assurance that the financial markets and credit availability will improve or stabilize and, thereby, enable us to refinance or extend maturing debt on acceptable terms. If we are unable to refinance existing debt on acceptable terms or obtain appropriate extensions of maturing debt, the relevant loans could default, in which case the lenders may foreclose on the hotels mortgaged as security for the repayment of those loans. Although our secured debt is generally non-recourse to us, loan defaults under certain circumstances could adversely affect our credit ratings and our ability to borrow funds in the future. If our ability to borrow funds in the future is impaired, our corresponding ability to reinvest in our hotels and pursue growth through acquisitions, while maintaining targeted overall leverage (which we believe helps us achieve desired overall returns for our stockholders), could be constrained. The current global recession has had an adverse effect on our revenue per available room, or RevPAR, performance and results of operations. The effects of a continued or deepening recession on our financial condition could be material. The overall weakness in the U.S. economy, particularly the turmoil in the credit markets, weakness in the housing market, and volatile energy and commodity costs, has resulted in considerable negative pressure on both consumer and business spending (this includes increased emphasis in cost containment with focus on travel and entertainment limitations). We anticipate that lodging demand will not improve materially until current economic trends reverse course, particularly the weakened overall economy and illiquid credit markets. For 2010, we believe that the continued weakness in the credit markets, when combined with stagnant employment and business investing, will continue to affect both leisure and business travel negatively and, accordingly, inhibit lodging demand. Further, as hotels adjust to new demand levels by shifting their occupancy mix to lower-rated business, we expect to see average room rates and ancillary spending decline in most markets. Decreased occupancy and declining room rates have an adverse effect on RevPAR, Hotel EBITDA margins and results of operations. Our RevPAR declined in 2009, reflecting decreases in both average daily rate, or ADR, and occupancy. We expect continued downward pressure in ADR until corporate demand increases, particularly within certain business segments (notably, transient business and group business). In the meantime, leisure travelers benefit from the shift in pricing power and are occupying some of the rooms previously taken by higher-rate paying business travelers. As a consequence, our occupancy is declining slower than ADR, which has the potential to shrink Hotel EBITDA margins and negatively affect our results of operations unless we are able to reduce costs to mitigate that effect. Because we are a REIT and do not manage our hotels directly, we rely on third-party managers to drive both revenue and contain costs, and while we make every effort to work with our managers to maximize cost containment and improve revenue, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful or otherwise mitigate declining RevPAR, Hotel EBITDA margins or results of operations. In response to the economic decline, we suspended payment of all dividends. Significant decreases in RevPAR or Hotel EBITDA margins, or continued material deterioration in the capital markets in the future, could reduce our ability to begin paying dividends again or to service our debt. Compliance with, or failure to comply with, our financial covenants may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The agreements governing our 10% senior notes require that we satisfy total leverage, secured leverage and interest coverage tests in order to: (i) incur additional indebtedness except to refinance maturing debt with replacement debt, as defined under our indentures; (ii) pay dividends in excess of the minimum distributions required to meet the REIT qualification test; (iii) repurchase capital stock; or (iv) merge. We are currently restricted from paying dividends (except to the extent necessary to satisfy the REIT qualification requirement that we distribute currently at least 90% of our taxable income) and repurchasing capital stock in connection with these tests. 12 These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and financial tests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the obligations under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing those obligations. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Certain of our subsidiaries have been formed as special purpose entities, or SPEs. These SPEs have incurred mortgage debt secured by the assets of those SPEs, which is non-recourse to us. However, a violation of any of the recourse carve-out provisions, including fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse carve-out provisions, could cause this debt to become fully recourse to us. We have substantial financial leverage. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated debt of $1.8 billion represented approximately 76% of our total enterprise value. Declines in revenues and cash flow may adversely affect our public debt ratings, and may limit our access to additional debt. Our senior notes, as currently rated by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, are considered below investment grade. Historically, we have incurred debt for acquisitions and to fund our renovation, redevelopment and rebranding programs. Limitations upon our access to additional debt could adversely affect our ability to fund these programs or acquire hotels in the future. Our financial leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, renovation, redevelopment and rebranding plans, acquisitions, debt service requirements and other purposes; • limit our ability to refinance existing debt; • require us to agree to additional restrictions and limitations on our business operations and capital structure to obtain financing; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and to interest rate fluctuations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for capital expenditures, future business opportunities, paying dividends or other purposes; • limit our flexibility to make, or react to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage, compared to our competitors that have less debt. Most of our hotel mortgage debt is recourse solely to the specific assets securing the debt. However, a violation of any of the recourse carve-out provisions, including fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse carve-out provisions, could cause this debt to become fully recourse to us. Our debt agreements will allow us to incur additional debt that, if incurred, could exacerbate the other risks described herein. We may be able to incur substantial debt in the future. Although the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above would intensify. 13 We have substantial variable rate debt. At December 31, 2009, approximately 35% of our consolidated outstanding debt had variable interest rates. If variable interest rates were to increase significantly, they could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of real estate ownership, which could increase our costs of operations. General Risks. Our investment in hotels is subject to the numerous risks generally associated with owning real estate, including among others: • adverse changes in general or local economic or real estate market conditions; • the ability to refinance debt on favorable terms at maturity; • changes in zoning laws; • increases in lodging supply or competition; • decreases in demand; • changes in traffic patterns and neighborhood characteristics; • increases in assessed property taxes from changes in valuation or real estate tax rates; • increases in the cost of our property insurance; • the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses; • costly governmental regulations and fiscal policies; • changes in tax laws; • our ability to acquire hotel properties at prices consistent with our investment criteria; • our ability to fund capital expenditures at our hotels to maintain or enhance their competitive position; and • other circumstances beyond our control. Moreover, real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in a timely manner to respond to changes in economic and other conditions. Compliance with environmental laws may adversely affect our financial condition. Owners of real estate are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Under these laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real estate may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances found on its property, whether or not they were responsible for its presence. In addition, if an owner of real property arranges for the disposal of hazardous substances at another site, it may also be liable for the costs of remediating the disposal site, even if it did not own or operate the disposal site. Such liability may be imposed without regard to fault or the legality of a party’s conduct and may, in certain circumstances, be joint and several. A property owner may also be liable to third parties for personal injuries or property damage sustained as a result of its release of hazardous or toxic substances, including asbestos-containing materials, into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations may require us to incur substantial expenses and limit the use of our properties. We could have substantial liability for a failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, which may be enforced by the government or, in certain instances, by private parties. The existence of hazardous substances on a property can also adversely affect the value of, and the owner’s ability to use, sell or borrow against, the property. We cannot provide assurances that future or amended laws or regulations, or more stringent interpretations or enforcement of existing environmental requirements, will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the environmental condition or liability relating to our hotels will not be affected by new information or changed circumstances, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of such hotels, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by the actions of unrelated third parties. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act may adversely affect our financial condition. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all public accommodations, including hotels, are required to meet certain federal requirements for access and use by disabled persons. Various state and local jurisdictions have also adopted requirements relating to the accessibility of buildings to disabled persons. We believe that our hotels substantially comply with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. However, a determination that our hotels are not in compliance with these laws could result in liability for both governmental fines and payments to private parties. If we were required to make unanticipated major 14 modifications to our hotels to comply with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws, it could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to satisfy our other obligations. Lodging industry-related risks may adversely affect our business. We are subject to the risks inherent to hotel operations. We have ownership interests in the operating lessees of our hotels; consequently, we are subject to the risk of fluctuating hotel operating expenses at our hotels, including, but not limited to: • wage and benefit costs, including hotels that employ unionized labor; • repair and maintenance expenses; • gas and electricity costs; • insurance costs, including health, general liability and workers compensation; and • other operating expenses. In addition, we are subject to the risks of a decline in Hotel EBITDA margins, which occur when hotel operating expenses increase disproportionately to revenues or fail to shrink at least as fast as revenues decline. These operating expenses and Hotel EBITDA margins are within the control of our independent managers over whom we have limited control. Investing in hotel assets involves special risks. We have invested in hotel-related assets, and our hotels are subject to all of the risks common to the hotel industry. These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy and the rates that can be charged for hotel rooms, and generally include: • adverse effects of declines in general and local economic activity; • competition from other hotels; • construction of more hotel rooms in a particular area than needed to meet demand; • any further increases in energy costs and other travel expenses; • other events, such as terrorist acts or war that reduce business and leisure travel; • fluctuations in our revenue caused by the seasonal nature of the hotel industry; • an outbreak of a pandemic disease affecting the travel industry; • a downturn in the hotel industry; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotels and real estate, as discussed herein. We could face increased competition. Each of our hotels competes with other hotels in its geographic area. A number of additional hotel rooms have been, or may be, built in a number of the geographic areas in which our hotels are located, which could adversely affect both occupancy and rates in those markets. A significant increase in the supply of midprice, upscale and upper upscale hotel rooms and suites, if demand fails to increase at least proportionately, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face reduced coverages and increased costs of insurance. Our property insurance has a $100,000 all risk deductible, a deductible of 5% of insured value for named windstorm coverage and a deductible ranging from 2% to 5% of insured value for California earthquake coverage. Substantial uninsured or not fully-insured losses would have a material adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Catastrophic losses, such as the losses caused by hurricanes in 2005, could make the cost of insuring against these types of losses prohibitively expensive or difficult to find. In an effort to limit the cost of insurance, we purchase catastrophic insurance coverage based on probable maximum losses based on 250-year events and have only purchased terrorism insurance to the extent required by our lenders. We have established a self-insured retention of $250,000 per occurrence for general liability insurance with regard to 57 of our hotels. The remainder of our hotels participate in general liability programs sponsored by our managers, with no deductible. 15 We could have property losses not covered by insurance. Our property policies provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded. Therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached, and each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. We may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive sufficient coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes or catastrophic terrorist acts. There are risks such as war, catastrophic terrorist acts, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attacks, and some environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. We may also encounter disputes concerning whether an insurance provider will pay a particular claim that we believe is covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We obtain terrorism insurance to the extent required by lenders as a part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors’ and officers’ coverages. However, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits and sub-limits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. Also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, for “certified” acts of terrorism - namely those which are committed on behalf of non-United States persons or interests. Furthermore, we do not have full replacement coverage at all of our properties for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of United States persons or interests (“non-certified” events) as our coverage for such incidents is subject to sub-limits and/or annual aggregate limits. In addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. While TRIA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, TRIA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. Additionally, there is a possibility that congress will not renew TRIA in the future, which would eliminate the federal subsidy for terrorism losses. As a result of the above, there remains uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. We have geographic concentrations that may create risks from regional or local economic, seismic or weather conditions. At December 31, 2009, approximately 48% of our hotel rooms were located in, and 47% of our 2009 Hotel EBITDA was generated from, three states: California, Florida and Texas. Additionally, at December 31, 2009, we had concentrations in six major metropolitan areas, the San Francisco Bay area, Atlanta, South Florida, Orlando, Dallas and the Los Angeles area, which together represented approximately 33% of our Hotel EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2009. Therefore, adverse economic, seismic or weather conditions in these states or metropolitan areas may have a greater adverse effect on us than on the industry as a whole. Transferability of franchise license and management agreements and termination of such agreements may be prohibited or restricted. Hotel managers and franchise licensors may have the right to terminate their agreements or suspend their services in the event of default under such agreements or other third party agreements such as ground leases and mortgages, upon the loss of liquor licenses, or in the event of the sale or transfer of the hotel. Franchise license agreements may expire by their terms, and we may not be able to obtain replacement franchise license agreements. The sale of a hotel, replacement of the brand, or material default under a management or franchise license agreement may give rise to payment of liquidated damages or termination fees that may be guaranteed by us or certain of our subsidiaries. The loss of a manager or franchise license could have a material impact on the 16 operations and value of a hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchise licensor or operations management provided by the manager. Most of our management agreements restrict our ability to encumber our interests in the applicable hotels under certain circumstances without the managers’ consent. Terminating management agreements in connection with the sale of two hotels may result in liquidated damages. In 2009, we sold two Holiday Inn hotels in Florida operating under management agreements with IHG. These hotels were originally designated for redevelopment with condominiums, but market conditions in Florida no longer make these condominium projects feasible. We also determined that the major capital expenditures necessary to retain the Holiday Inn flags at these hotels were not in the best interests of our stockholders, given the shortened hold period for these hotels. We will be required to pay replacement management fees for up to one year and liquidated damages (net of any replacement management fees previously paid) in December 2010; or reinvest in another hotel to be managed by IHG and carrying an IHG brand. Given the current state of the economy and the market for hotel acquisitions, substitution of a replacement hotel appears unlikely prior to the relevant dates, and we will likely have to pay IHG at least some portion of replacement management fees and/or liquidated damages. Liquidated damages are computed based on operating results of a hotel prior to termination. The aggregate liability related to these hotels, if paid, will be approximately $11 million. We accrued the full amount of liquidated damages in 2008. We are subject to possible adverse effects of management, franchise and license agreement requirements. All of our hotels are operated under existing management, franchise or license agreements with nationally recognized hotel companies. Each agreement requires that the licensed hotel be maintained and operated in accordance with specific standards and restrictions in order to maintain uniformity within the brand. Compliance with these standards, and changes in these standards, could require us to incur significant expenses or capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and service on our indebtedness. We are subject to the risks of brand concentration. We are subject to the potential risks associated with the concentration of our hotels under a limited number of brands. A negative public image or other adverse event that becomes associated with the brand could adversely affect hotels operated under that brand. The following table reflects the percentage of Hotel EBITDA from our 83 Consolidated Hotels at December 31, 2009 by brand: Hotels % of 2009 Hotel EBITDA(a) Embassy Suites Hotels 47 60 % Holiday Inn 15 18 Sheraton and Westin 9 9 Doubletree 7 7 Renaissance and Marriott 3 3 Hilton 2 3 (a) Hotel EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. A detailed reconciliation and further discussion of Hotel EBITDA is contained in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report. If any of these brands suffer a significant decline in popularity with the traveling public, the revenues and profitability of our branded hotels could be adversely affected. The lodging business is seasonal in nature. Generally, hotel revenues for our hotel portfolio are greater in the second and third calendar quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters, although this may not be true for hotels in major tourist destinations. Revenues for hotels in tourist areas are generally substantially greater during tourist season than other times of the year. We expect that seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels will cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. 17 Future terrorist activities may adversely affect, and create uncertainty in, our business. Terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could have an adverse effect on our business, although the degree of impact will depend on a number of factors, including the U.S. and global economies and global financial markets. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorism alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. Such attacks, or the threat of such attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties, and/or our results of operations and financial condition, as a whole. We face risks related to pandemic diseases, which could materially and adversely affect travel and result in reduced demand for our hotels. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the recent outbreaks of SARS and avian flu had a severe impact on the travel industry, and outbreaks of H1N1 flu threatens to have a similar impact. A prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 flu or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our hotels and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations, we could be subject to payment of fines, damages or face restrictions on our use of guest data. We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. As a REIT, we are subject to specific tax laws and regulations, the violation of which could subject us to significant tax liabilities. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that is intended to enable us to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complicated, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we have been, or will continue to be, successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are subject to change. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. These new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal income tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. Any of these new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us, or you as a stockholder. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. Each year, a REIT must pay out to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income, other than any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible tax if the actual amount we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. Our only source of funds to make such distributions comes from distributions from FelCor LP. Accordingly, we may be required to borrow money or sell assets to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% tax in a particular year. 18 Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on our taxable income for any such taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open. We might need to borrow money or sell hotels in order to obtain the funds necessary to pay any such tax. If we cease to be a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was excused under federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. We lack control over the management and operations of our hotels. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating hotels, we do not manage our hotels. Instead, we are dependent on the ability of independent third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions for the operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, the salary and benefits provided to hotel employees, the conduct of food and beverage operations and similar matters. While our taxable REIT subsidiaries monitor the third-party manager’s performance, we have limited specific recourse under our management agreements if we believe the third-party managers are not performing adequately. Failure by our third-party managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our third-party managers or their affiliates manage hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our third-party managers may have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego attractive opportunities that could otherwise generate strong risk-adjusted returns and instead pursue less attractive opportunities, or none at all. To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could result in an overall loss on our investments. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we may be able to preserve our REIT status by benefiting from certain statutory relief provisions. Except with respect to a de minimis failure of the 5% asset test or the 10% vote or value test, we can maintain our REIT status only if the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. In that case, we will be required to dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which we identified the failure, and we will be required to pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate (currently 35%) multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. 19 We own, and may acquire, interests in hotel joint ventures with third parties that expose us to some risk of additional liabilities or capital requirements. We own, through our subsidiaries, interests in several real estate joint ventures with third parties. Joint ventures that are not consolidated into our financial statements owned real estate interests in a total of 15 hotels, in which we had an aggregate investment of $82 million, at December 31, 2009. The lessee operations of 13 of these 15 hotels are included in our consolidated results of operations due to our majority ownership of those lessees. Our joint venture partners are affiliates of Hilton with respect to 11 hotels, affiliates of Starwood with respect to one hotel, and private entities or individuals (all of whom are unaffiliated with us) with respect to three hotels. The ventures and hotels were subject to non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating $215 million at December 31, 2009. The personal liability of our subsidiaries under existing non-recourse loans secured by the hotels owned by our joint ventures is generally limited to the guaranty of the borrowing ventures’ personal obligations to pay for the lender’s losses caused by misconduct, fraud or misappropriation of funds by the ventures and other typical exceptions from the non-recourse covenants in the mortgages, such as those relating to environmental liability. We may invest in other ventures in the future that own hotels and have recourse or non-recourse debt financing. If a venture defaults under its mortgage loan, the lender may accelerate the loan and demand payment in full before taking action to foreclose on the hotel. As a partner or member in any of these ventures, our subsidiary may be exposed to liability for claims asserted against the venture, and the venture may not have sufficient assets or insurance to discharge the liability. Our subsidiaries may be contractually or legally unable to unilaterally control decisions regarding these ventures and their hotels. In addition, the hotels in a joint venture may perform at levels below expectations, resulting in potential insolvency unless the joint venturers provide additional funds. In some ventures, the joint venturers may elect not to make additional capital contributions. We may be faced with the choice of losing our investment in a venture or investing additional capital in it with no guaranty of receiving a return on that investment. Our directors may have interests that may conflict with our interests. A director who has a conflict of interest with respect to an issue presented to our board will have no inherent legal obligation to abstain from voting upon that issue. We do not have provisions in our bylaws or charter that require an interested director to abstain from voting upon an issue, and we do not expect to add provisions in our charter and bylaws to this effect. Although each director has a duty of loyalty to us, there is a risk that, should an interested director vote upon an issue in which a director or one of his or her affiliates has an interest, his or her vote may reflect a bias that could be contrary to our best interests. In addition, even if an interested director abstains from voting, that director’s participation in the meeting and discussion of an issue in which they have, or companies with which he or she is associated have, an interest could influence the votes of other directors regarding the issue. Departure of key personnel would deprive us of the institutional knowledge, expertise and leadership they provide. Our executive management team includes our President and Chief Executive Officer and four Executive Vice Presidents. In addition, we have several other long-tenured senior officers. These executives and officers generally possess institutional knowledge about our organization and the hospitality or real estate industries, have significant expertise in their fields, and possess leadership skills that are important to our operations. The loss of any of our executives or other long-serving officers could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. 20 Our charter contains limitations on ownership and transfer of shares of our stock that could adversely affect attempted transfers of our capital stock. To maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, under the applicable tax rules, by five or fewer persons during the last half of any taxable year. Our charter prohibits, subject to some exceptions, any person from owning more than 9.9%, as determined in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, of the number of outstanding shares of any class of our stock. Our charter also prohibits any transfer of our stock that would result in a violation of the 9.9% ownership limit, reduce the number of stockholders below 100 or otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. Any attempted transfer of shares in violation of the charter prohibitions will be void, and the intended transferee will not acquire any right in those shares. We have the right to take any lawful action that we believe is necessary or advisable to ensure compliance with these ownership and transfer restrictions and to preserve our status as a REIT, including refusing to recognize any transfer of stock in violation of our charter. Some provisions in our charter and bylaws and Maryland law make a takeover more difficult. Ownership Limit. The ownership and transfer restrictions of our charter may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a third party from attempting to gain control of us without the approval of our board of directors. Accordingly, it is less likely that a change in control, even if beneficial to stockholders, could be effected without the approval of our board. Staggered Board. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. Directors in each class are elected for terms of three years. As a result, the ability of stockholders to effect a change in control of us through the election of new directors is limited by the inability of stockholders to elect a majority of our board at any particular meeting. Authority to Issue Additional Shares. Under our charter, our board of directors may issue up to an aggregate of 20 million shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. The preferred stock may be issued, in one or more series, with the preferences and other terms designated by our board that may delay or prevent a change in control of us, even if the change is in the best interests of stockholders. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding 12,880,475 shares of our Series A preferred stock and 67,980 shares, represented by 6,798,000 depositary shares, of our Series C preferred stock. Maryland Takeover Statutes. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various provisions under the Maryland General Corporation Law, including the Maryland Business Combination Act, that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of stockholders. Under the Maryland business combination statute, some “business combinations,” including some issuances of equity securities, between a Maryland corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares, or an affiliate of that stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Any of these business combinations must be approved by a stockholder vote meeting two separate super majority requirements, unless, among other conditions, the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the statute, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its common shares. Our charter currently provides that the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act will not apply to any of our existing or future stock. That statute may deny voting rights to shares involved in an acquisition of one-tenth or more of the voting stock of a Maryland corporation. To the extent these or other laws are applicable to us, they may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even though beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Item 