Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate in response to a number of factors. Lower prices could reduce or eliminate the net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The Trust’s quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to Unitholders. Natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a quarter-to-quarter basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: Ÿ worldwide economic conditions; Ÿ weather conditions; Ÿ the supply and price of domestic and foreign natural gas; Ÿ the level of consumer demand; Ÿ political conditions in major oil and natural gas producing regions, especially the Middle East; Ÿ the price and availability of alternative fuels; Ÿ the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; Ÿ the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and 19 Table of Contents Ÿ the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation. When natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net royalties are reduced. Second, exploration and development activity on the Underlying Properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. Recent lifting costs have been close to or in some cases more than recent gas prices for certain projects in the Underlying Properties. The Company informed the Trustee that it abandoned 11 wells in 2012 and 11 wells in 2013 as the Company considered them uneconomic, and up to an additional 10 to 20 wells may become subject to abandonment during 2014 if natural gas prices remain low. It is impossible to predict future natural gas price movements, and this reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unitholders. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future net revenues to be too high, leading to write-downs of estimated reserves. The value of the Units will depend upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests in the Underlying Properties. The calculations of proved reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are only estimates, and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues are based upon various assumptions regarding future production levels, prices and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment, and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable natural gas and the future prices of natural gas. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make many assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: Ÿ historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; Ÿ the effects of governmental regulation; Ÿ assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, taxes, and capital expenditures; Ÿ the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and Ÿ relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in any of these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve and future net revenue estimates. The Trust’s estimate of reserves and future net revenues is further complicated because the Trust holds overriding royalty interests and does not own a specific percentage of the natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates, and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-downs of reserves. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the Units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism, continued hostilities in the Middle East, and other sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the Underlying Properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Risks Related to the Trust and Ownership of the Units The assets of the Trust are depleting assets and, if the operators developing the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. Eventually, the assets of the Trust will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will cease to receive proceeds from such assets. In addition, a reduction in depletion tax benefits may reduce the market value of the Units. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves and can offset the reduction in proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will 20 Table of Contents depend on the market prices of natural gas. Recent gas prices have been close to or in some cases less than the lifting costs for certain projects in the Underlying Properties. Additionally, the Company notified the Trustee that it is undertaking a study of the Underlying Properties on a well-by-well basis to determine the economic viability of continuing to produce each individual well. The Company informed the Trustee that it abandoned 11 wells in 2012 and 11 wells in 2013 as the Company considered them uneconomic and will evaluate an additional 10 to 20 wells in 2014. If the Company decides to suspend production or abandon any additional wells, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently calculated by the Trust and proceeds payable to the Trust (and therefore Trust distributions) would be reduced. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unitholders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, the Royalty Interests will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom. The Trust will be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events. Pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement, the Trust will terminate upon the occurrence of: (i) an affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66 2/3 percent of the outstanding Units to terminate the Trust; (ii) such time as the ratio of the cash amounts received by the Trust attributable to the Royalty Interests in any calendar quarter to administrative costs of the Trust for such calendar quarter is less than 1.2 to 1.0 for two consecutive calendar quarters; or (iii) March 1 of any year if it is determined, based on a reserve report as of December 31 of the prior year prepared by a firm of independent petroleum engineers mutually selected by the Trustee and the Company, that the net present value (discounted at 10 percent) of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests is equal to or less than $5 million. With respect to (ii) above, the ratio of cash amounts to expenses for the most recent calendar quarter was 1.6 to .2 ratio and with (iii) above, the net present value of the estimated future net revenues computed as described above by the independent petroleum engineers as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $16.8 million. While the results of these computations will not trigger an early termination of the Trust as of December 31, 2013, future computations are subject to the numerous uncertainties in estimating the future net revenues as described in “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future net revenues to be too high, leading to write-downs of estimated reserves”, including changes in pricing, costs and production volumes. Additionally, the Company notified the Trustee that it abandoned 11 wells in 2012 and 11 wells in 2013 as it considered them uneconomic and that it is continuing to study the economic viability of an additional 10 to 20 wells within the Underlying Properties in 2014, as a result of which the Company could decide to suspend production or abandon such additional wells. As a result, the ability of the Trust’s ratio of cash receipts to expenses or the ability of the reserves to exceed the threshold in the future is uncertain. Following termination, the Trustee will use best efforts to sell any remaining Royalty Interests then owned by the Trust and the net proceeds of any sale would be distributed to Unitholders. There is no assurance that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all Unitholders. “Item 1 — Business — Description of the Trust — Termination and Liquidation of the Trust” discusses consequences including tax consequences that may result to Unitholders, in the event Trust assets are sold and the Trust is terminated. Unitholders and the Trustee have no influence over the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unitholders can influence or control the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. The failure of the Company or any future operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. Neither the Company nor any future operators developing the Underlying Properties are under any obligation to continue operations on the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unitholders have the right to replace an operator. The market price for the Units may not reflect the value of the Royalty Interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including 21 Table of Contents prevailing prices for natural gas produced from the Trust’s royalty interests. The market price is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold those Royalty Interests to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unitholder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unitholder. The Company may transfer its interest in any Underlying Property without the consent of the Trust or the Unitholders. The Company, as the operator developing the Underlying Properties, may at any time transfer all or part of its interest in any Underlying Property to another party. Neither the Trust nor the Unitholders are entitled to vote on any transfer of the properties underlying the Royalty Interests, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the transferred property will continue to be subject to the Royalty Interests of the Trust, but the net proceeds from the transferred property will be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee will be responsible for all of the transferor’s obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the net overriding royalties from the transferred property, and the transferor will have no continuing obligation to the Trust for that property. The obligations of Walter Exploration & Production to pay certain amounts if they are not paid by the Company may terminate upon a sale by the Company of its interests in the Underlying Properties or a sale by Walter Exploration & Production of its equity ownership interest in the Company. Walter Exploration & Production has agreed to assume Dominion Resources’ obligations in the Trust Agreement to pay (i) all liabilities and operating and capital expenses that any Company Interests Owner becomes obligated to pay as a result of the Company Interests Owner’s obligations under the Conveyance and (ii) the obligations of the Company to indemnify the Trust and the Trustees for certain environmental liabilities. Walter Exploration & Production’s obligations will terminate, among other times, upon (i) the sale or other transfer by the Company of all or substantially all of its interest in the Underlying Properties or (ii) the sale or other transfer of a majority of Walter Exploration & Production’s direct or indirect equity ownership interests in the Company. However, in these circumstances, Walter Exploration & Production’s obligations will terminate only if (a) the transferee has a specified credit rating or the transferee, together with any affiliate that guarantees its obligations, does not have a rating assigned to its unsecured long-term debt from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization but has a specified net worth or (b) the transferee is approved by a majority of the Unitholders; and provided that the transferee also unconditionally agrees in writing, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, to assume Walter Exploration & Production’s remaining obligations under the Trust Agreement with respect to the assets transferred and under the Administrative Services Agreement. The Company may abandon the Underlying Properties, thereby terminating the related Royalty Interest payable to the Trust. The Company, as the operator developing the Underlying Properties, or any transferee thereof, may abandon any well or lease without the consent of the Trust or the Unitholders if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in the termination of the Royalty Interest relating to the abandoned well or lease. Unitholders have limited voting rights. The voting rights of a Unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Although this basis of 22 Table of Contents accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the SEC, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because revenues are not accrued in the month of production and cash reserves may be established for specified contingencies and deducted, which could not be accrued in GAAP financial statements. Unitholders May Lack Limited Liability. Consistent with Delaware law, the Trust Agreement provides that the Unitholders will have the same limitation on liability as is accorded under the laws of such state to stockholders of a corporation for profit. No assurance can be given, however, that the courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware will give effect to such limitation. Cash held by the Trustee is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and future royalty income may be subject to risks relating to the creditworthiness of third parties. Currently, cash held by the Trustee as a reserve for liabilities and for the payment of expenses and distributions to Unitholders is invested in Bank of America money market accounts which are backed by the good faith of Bank of America, N.A., but are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Each Unitholder should independently assess the creditworthiness of Bank of American, N.A. For more information about the credit rating of Bank of America, N.A., please refer to its periodic filings with the SEC. The Trust does not lend money and has limited ability to borrow money, which the Trustee believes limits the Trust’s risk from the current tightening of credit markets. The Trust’s future royalty income, however, may be subject to risks relating to the creditworthiness of the operators of the Underlying Properties and other purchasers of the natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties, as well as risks associated with fluctuations in the price of natural gas. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 