Risk factors’’, ‘‘Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations’’, ‘‘Business’’ and elsewhere in this prospectus. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Singing Machine Company, Inc. (“Company,” “Singing Machine,” “we,” “us,” or, “our”) is engaged in the development, production, marketing and distribution of consumer karaoke audio equipment, accessories, music, musical instruments, and licensed youth electronic products. We contract for the manufacturing of all our electronic equipment products with factories located in China. We also produce and market karaoke music, including compact discs plus graphics ("CD+G's"), which contain music and lyrics of popular songs for use with karaoke recording equipment. We obtain the song licenses from major publishers such as EMI, Universal, Sony and Warner and contract for the reproduction of music recordings with independent studios. We have also begun collaborating with a music download service provider for an expanded library of musical selections. This collaboration provides the Company with not only an expanded library of music for sale and distribution; it opens up the Company’s music sales to customers who purchase our competitors’ karaoke machines as well. Further, the capabilities of the Company’s new download music distribution system includes the ability to stream selections from this expanded content library, creating the opportunity to open new revenue sources through the sale of subscriptions. The Company is also in the process of expanding its web presence by creating a hosted cyber-community where customers can upload their individual karaoke performances to share. We were incorporated in California in 1982. We originally sold our products exclusively to professional and semi-professional singers. In 1988, we began marketing karaoke equipment for home use. We believe we are the first company to introduce the home karaoke products to the United States. In May 1994, we merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated in Delaware with the same name. As a result of that merger, the Delaware Corporation became the successor to the business and operations of the California Corporation and retained the name The Singing Machine Company, Inc. In July 1994, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, known as International SMC (HK) Ltd. ("International SMC" or "Hong Kong subsidiary"), to coordinate our engineering, production, logistics and financial operations in China. In September 2006, International SMC was sold to See Bright Investments Limited, a non-related third party. In December 2005, we formed a wholly-owned subsidiary SMC (Comercial Offshore De Macau) Limitada in Macau, China (“SMC Macau” or “Macau subsidiary”), to provide sales, financing, shipping, engineering and sourcing support for Singing Machine and Subsidiaries. Our Macau subsidiary has been approved to operate its business in Macau as Macau Offshore Company (MOC) and is exempt for the Macau corporate income tax. In February 2008, we formed a wholly-owned subsidiary SMC Logistics, Inc. (“SMC-L”), a California corporation, to manage the U.S. domestic logistics and fulfillment warehouse servicing for the Company and in April 2008 a wholly-owned subsidiary, SMC Music, Inc. (“SMC-M”) to contract with third party music providers. In November 1994, we closed an initial public offering of 2,070,000 shares of our common stock and 2,070,000 warrants. In April 1997, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On March 17, 1998, our plan of reorganization was approved by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. On June 10, 1998, our plan of reorganization had been fully implemented and we emerged from the reorganization proceeding. Since then, we have developed the Karaoke products featuring on-screen lyric, built-in camera and digital key control functions. We have been listed on the AMEX since March 8, 2001. Our common stock currently trades on under the stock symbol "SMD." Our principal executive offices are located in Coconut Creek, Florida. We have raised approximately $6 million in equity investments from investors in Hong Kong from February 2006 to June 2007. The investors include two major suppliers: koncept International Limited and Arts Electronics Co., Ltd. The investments from these major suppliers underscore their support to the Company. 2 GROWTH STRATEGY The overall objective of the Singing Machine is to create an efficient platform for the development, manufacture, and marketing of home entertainment based consumer electronics. The Company will also seek new revenue opportunities through web-based content delivery and the creation of a community based entertainment platforms. We also intend to leverage our position as a member of the Greater Starlight International Holdings, Ltd, group to capitalize on synergies which exist therein and to exercise our knowledge of the electronics business to grow revenue. The Company intends to leverage our valuable customer base and strong relationships with our factories to achieve our organic and external growth initiatives. Organic Growth Strategy We intend to pursue various initiatives to execute our organic growth strategy which is designed to enhance our market presence, expand our customer base and be an industry leader in new product development. Key elements of our organic growth strategy include: Business Focus and Public Perceptions. Historically karaoke has been our core business. The Singing Machine brand is widely recognized as a leader in karaoke and consequently we hold a dominant market share in the business. While consistently a market leader, the Company has determined that it needs to diversify and expand its core focus in order to grow its business. The Company has therefore refocused its self-perception and is determined to build on its success by defining ourself as a provider of quality in home entertainment – not just home karaoke. Critical to this strategy is a move to add value to our core business of karaoke machine sales. We believe that by bundling our karaoke machine products with content such as Compact Disc, Electronic Download, Steaming Media, Community Performance Hosting, and by creating quality, wholesome, home entertainment for the entire family we will not only sell more products, we will find new sources of revenue. Using our existing key relationships with our customers and factories, and by adding new relationships with key content providers, we believe we can achieve more top-line growth by utilizing these relationships to design and distribute a more diversified line of consumer electronics. This should allow our Company to reduce our dependency on a single karaoke product and minimize our exposure to the volatility of the karaoke market in general. Develop new features for karaoke equipment. The technology development in the karaoke market has been stagnant since 2004. We believe that in order to revitalize the karaoke market, we need to incorporate new technologies. We are currently developing new karaoke products which will host a number of unique features which we believe will diversity us from the rest of the industry. We are currently developing a new feature set for our karaoke machines which allow digital audio and video recording of our customer’s in home karaoke performance. Once recorded the customer would then be able to email or upload the performance to community based websites such as YouTube®, or our own community website. We anticipate later versions of this technology will support WiFi interaction to make the machine an internet appliance capable of accessing our music store to purchase a subscription of unlimited downloads for a day, week, or year based on the type of subscription purchased. We also plan to introduce performance scoring or rating so that customers will be able to have in-home competitions with full video playback to enhance the home entertainment experience. We have been working with our major shareholder and supplier, Starlight International, parent of koncept International Limited as well as other technology providers who each have strong research and development skills to bring these new concepts and devices to life. We believe the development of new products will not only reinforce our leadership position in the karaoke market, but will lead to increased sales and other opportunities which will remake the Company into a purveyor of quality in-home entertainment instead of simply being a supplier of single sale electronic devices. Focus on the key customers. We believe that we have the most karaoke product offerings than any of our competitors in the karaoke market. We will continue to provide exclusive products for our major retailers by meeting their needs or unique specification, target price, and service support. We will focus on product development for stores like Wal-Mart and Target. We believe this is one of the major areas in which we can substantially increase our revenues. We will involve our major customers in key marketing strategies to expand our product offerings and repeat customer business. Establish the music download business. Downloading music is one of the fastest growing areas in the music industry. We believe that the future of karaoke music distribution is through legal mediums of internet download sites (e.g. iTunes, iPhone, Amazon, etc). Since karaoke music only accounts for a small percentage of total music business, retailers usually only offer a limited selection of karaoke products. Thus, it is difficult for the customers to find karaoke music in retail outlets, especially for the songs they enjoy. While we maintain a physical CD distribution business, we will concurrently launch a music download project in calendar 2009 to capitalize on this new distribution model. The benefit to the Company are multifaceted including the opportunity to: offer downloadable music which means less physical inventory for the Company and our retail customers to carry; reduce financial return risk since a downloaded pieced of karaoke music is not returnable; make available increased marketing opportunities by offering downloads for those who sign up and provide their contact information enabling the Company to create future marketing and advertising campaigns; create an opportunity to sell our karaoke music to not only our customers but also to owners of our competitors’ machines (new and old); create cross-promotions with our retail-customers by giving away music downloads to purchasers of karaoke machines as an incentive to sell more machines. Exploit Synergies from Within the Starlight Group. We are always looking to increase profitability or revenue through synergy recognition. The Company has recognized an opportunity to offer our existing warehouse and logistics services to the Starlight Group for a fee. The fee arrangement was negotiated at arm’s length and represents a significant revenue opportunity for the Company. Not only does the Starlight Group get a partner for its domestic US warehousing and logistics, we get service fees which defray the cost or our own historical warehouse expense. We are currently exploring other synergies including customer representative relationships, customer service functions and accounting services. These opportunities lead to new top line revenue growth and enhance profitability. 3 External Growth Strategy While our historical growth has been solely organic, we intend to pursue a growth strategy which contemplates a balanced combination of organic growth and external growth. Our external growth strategy will be characterized by potential strategic acquisition of synergistic electronic or technology companies. Accordingly, we intend to leverage the skill sets of our management team and board of directors to actively evaluate potential target companies and consummate merger and acquisition transactions as an important component of our business model. Acquisition Environment. Most of the major retailers in the United States prefer to buy the products from the factories directly. This has changed the traditional distribution model by eliminating the importers and brokers. In addition, the cost of products has seen a dramatic increase due to spiraling prices of petroleum based products, increasing labor costs in key manufacturing regions such as China, and the currency arbitrage risks with the decline in the value of the US dollar. In light of these developments, product costs have spiked while retail prices have been cut dramatically. We believe that the small to medium size companies who primarily depended on a constant significant profit margin will not be able to compete in this business environment. At the same time, capital funding is limited in the electronics market. Public and private equity are generally difficult to access, especially for those companies with inadequate management resources, unproven management and a lack of market leadership. As a member of the Starlight Group, we have access to product development and engineering resources that our competitors do not have. We also have access to financing for operations and product purchases at rates which are not otherwise available to our competitors. This situation creates for us the opportunity to make a strategic acquisition, should the right target present itself which will add to the value of the company and its business Opportunity for the Company. Based on preliminary discussions with potential targets, we believe that an acquisition will be attractive to the potential targets because of the following: · The existence of a diversified management team and the seasoned board of directors, who have significant experience operating businesses in the United States and working with factories in China; · An efficient business model, which is characterized by a rapid product development cycle, low operational costs and high inventory turn over; · The existence of strong relationships with key factories in China. Two of our major shareholders are also major factories in China which provides us with lower production costs and vendor financing; and · A visible exit strategy that offers cash or public traded securities. Acquisition Parameters. We intend to acquire companies which themselves have a potential for significant growth or which can add technology to our Company so that we can grow. These companies are limited by their resources and management’s abilities. We will focus on companies that have exhibited historical profitability or those that can combine with our Company to become profitable. We look for companies with strong brand name recognition that may bring additional revenues to our Company. PRODUCT LINES We currently have four different product lines which consist of over 50 different models. The product lines consist of the following: · Karaoke Machines that incorporate such features as CD plus graphics player, sound enhancement, echo, tape record/playback features, and multiple inputs and outputs for connection to compact disc players, built-in camera, video cassette recorders, and home theater systems. Our machines sell at retail prices ranging from $30 for basic units to $200 for semi-professional units · Music which includes a song library of over 2,500 recordings, which we license from their publishers. Our library of master recordings covers an eclectic range of musical tastes including popular hits, golden oldies, country, rock and roll, Motown, Christian, Latin, and Rap. SMC offers an exclusive line of Original Artist karaoke music under the monikers of “Real Karaoke” and “Motown Original Artist Karaoke”. Our music sells at retail prices ranging from $6.99 to $19.99. Additionally, SMC has executed an agreement with a third party to provide both physical and digital music content. The library available through these third parties extends to 15,000 selections and will be available in physical CD and downloadable formats. These physical titles will be directly distributed into mass merchants, specialty stores, e-tailers and music stores. · Bratz Licensed Products which include karaoke products, digital drum sets, clock radios, boom boxes, TV/DVD combos and portable DVD players. Bratz products will sell at retail prices ranging from $9.99 to $199. · Musical Instruments which include digital drum sets and keyboards. The retail price will range from $49 to $299. MARKETING, SALES Our karaoke machines and music are sold nationally and internationally to a broad spectrum of customers, primarily through mass merchandisers, department stores, direct mail catalogs and showrooms, music and record stores, national chains, specialty stores and warehouse clubs. Our product lines are currently sold in such stores as Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Costco, J.C. Penney, Kohl's, Radio Shack and Sam's Club. Our sales strategy include offering Domestic Sales as well as Direct import sales made off-shore. 4 Domestic Sales. Our strategy of selling products from a domestic warehouse enables us to provide timely delivery and serve as a domestic supplier of imported goods. We purchase karaoke machines overseas from certain factories in China for our own account, and warehouse the products in leased facilities in Florida and California. We are responsible for costs of shipping, insurance, customs clearance, duties, storage and distribution related to such products and, therefore, domestic sales command higher sales prices than direct sales. We generally sell from our own inventory in less than container-sized lots. Direct Sales. We ship some hardware products sold by us directly to customers from China through SMC Macau. Sales made through our subsidiary are completed by either delivering products to the customers' common carriers at the shipping point or by shipping the products to the customers' distribution centers, warehouses, or stores. Direct sales are made in larger quantities (generally container sized lots) to customers' world wide, which pay SMC Macau pursuant to their own international, irrevocable, transferable letters of credit or on open account. In fiscal 2008, approximately 51% of sales revenues were from direct sales and 49% of revenues were domestic sales. Our sales within the US are primarily made by our in-house sales team and our independent sales representatives. Our independent sales representatives are paid a commission based upon sales made in their respective territories. We utilize some of our outside independent sales representatives to help us provide service to our mass merchandisers and other retailers. The sales representative agreements are generally one (1) year agreements, which automatically renew on an annual basis, unless terminated by either party on 30 days' notice. Our international sales are primarily made by our in-house sales representatives and our independent distributors. As a percentage of total revenues, our net sales in the aggregate to our five largest customers during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, were approximately 62%, 57%, and 55%, respectively. In fiscal 2008, the top three major customers accounted for 22%, 11% and 11% of our net revenues. Although we have long-established relationships with all of our customers, we do not have quantity contractual arrangements with any of them. A decrease in business from any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We also market our products at various national and international trade shows each year. We regularly attend the following trade shows and conventions: the Consumer Electronics Show which takes place each January in Las Vegas; the American Toy Fair which occurs each February in New York and the Hong Kong Electronics Show stages each October in Hong Kong. The Singing Machine brand is one of the most widely recognized karaoke brands in the United States and Europe. While we continue to heavily focus on our core karaoke business, we are expanding our business into other product categories. Our strong product procurement team in Hong Kong and China combined with our experienced sales and service team in North America enables us to compete not only in the karaoke market but also in other markets, such as musical instruments, licensed toy products and other consumer electronics products. RETURNS Returns of electronic hardware and music products by our customers generally occur after approval involving quality defects, damaged goods or goods shipped in error. Our policy is to give credit to our customers for the returns in conjunction with the receipt of new replacement purchase orders. Recently the increasingly competitive environment has forced the Company to extend more liberal return authorizations as a marketing tool to extend, prolong or develop deeper business relationships with key customers. Our total returns represented 8.6%, 13.4%, and 7.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. LICENSE AGREEMENTS In February 2003, we entered into a multi-year license agreement with Universal Music Entertainment to market a line of Motown Karaoke machines and music. This agreement and its supplement agreement signed in March 2003, allowed us to be the first to use original artist recordings for our CD+G formatted karaoke music. Over the term of the license agreement, we are obligated to make guaranteed minimum royalty payments in the amount of $300,000, which was paid in full as of March 31, 2005. The agreement expired without renewal on December 31, 2006 without any additional minimum guarantee payments. We entered into a license agreement with Nickelodeon, Inc., a division of Viacom International, Inc. in December 2002. Under this agreement, we licensed Nickelodeon branded machines and a wide assortment of music. This license originally expired on December 31, 2004. The Company extended the agreement to December 31, 2006. Over the term of the license agreement, we were obligated to make guaranteed minimum royalty payments in the amount of $450,000, which was paid in full as of March 31, 2005. The agreement expired without renewal on December 31, 2006 without any additional minimum guarantee payments. On May 10, 2006, we entered into a two-year license agreement with MGA Entertainment, Inc. to produce and distribute a variety of karaoke products based on MGA's BRATZ™ franchise, one of the world's leading toy lines and girls' lifestyle brands, in North America, Europe and Australia. These karaoke products include a TFT DVD karaoke system, sing-a-long cassette players, deluxe microphones, electronic keyboards, and an electronic drum. On November 21, 2006, we entered into a three-year license agreement with MGA Entertainment, Inc. to produce and distribute a variety of consumer electronic products based on MGA's BRATZ™ franchise. These consumer electronic products include boom boxes, clock radios, and portable DVDs. The license agreement contains a minimum guarantee payment term. 5 TOTAL LICENSE SALES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED March 31, 2008 2007 2006 MTV 0.0 % 8.9 % 2.1 % Nickelodeon 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Bratz 15.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % Other Licenses 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.9 % Total Licenses Sales 15.0 % 8.9 % 3.0 % DISTRIBUTION We distribute hardware products to retailers and wholesale distributors through two methods: shipment of products from inventory held at our warehouse facilities in Florida and California (domestic sales), shipments directly through our Macau subsidiary, and manufacturers in China of products (direct sales). Domestic sales, which account for substantially all of our music sales, are made to customers located throughout North America from consignment inventories maintained at our distributor warehouse facilities. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, approximately 49% of our sales were sales from our domestic warehouses ("Domestic Sales") and 51% were sales shipped directly from China ("Direct Sales"). MANUFACTURING AND PRODUCTION Our karaoke machines are manufactured and assembled by third parties pursuant to design specifications provided by us. Currently, we have ongoing relationships with six factories, located in Guangdong Province of the People's Republic of China, which assemble our karaoke machines. During fiscal 2009, we anticipate that 90% of our karaoke products will be produced by one of these factories, which has agreed to extend the financing to us. We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our factories is adequate to meet the demands for our products in fiscal year 2009. However, if our primary factory in China was prevented from manufacturing and delivering our karaoke products, our operation would be severely disrupted until alternative sources of supply are located (See "Risk Factors - We are relying on one factory to manufacture and produce the majority of our karaoke machines for fiscal 2009" on page 9). In manufacturing our karaoke related products, these factories use molds and certain other tooling, most of which are owned by us. Our products contain electronic components manufactured by other companies such as Panasonic, Sanyo, Toshiba, and Sony. Our manufacturers purchase and install these electronic components in our karaoke machines and related products. The finished products are packaged and labeled under our trademark, The Singing Machine(R) and private labels. We use outside companies to mass-produce the CD+G's once the masters have been completed. While our equipment manufacturers purchase our supplies from a small number of large suppliers, all of the electronic components and raw materials used by us are available from several sources of supply. While we might depend on limited suppliers for some key components the loss of any single supplier would not have a material long-term adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition. Similarly, we use a small number of studios to record our music. We do not anticipate that the loss of any single studio would have a material long-term adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. To ensure that our high standards of product quality are met and that factories consistently meet our shipping schedules, we utilize Hong Kong and China based employees as our representatives. These employees include product inspectors who are knowledgeable about product specifications and work closely with the factories to verify that such specifications are met. Additionally, key personnel frequently visit our factories for quality assurance and to support good working relationships. All of the electronic equipment sold by us is warranted to the end user against manufacturing defects for a period of ninety (90) days for labor and parts. All music sold is similarly warranted for a period of 30 days. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, warranty claims have not been material to our results of operations. COMPETITION Our business is highly competitive. Our major competitors for karaoke machines and related products are Memorex, GPX and other consumer electronics companies. We believe that competition for karaoke machines is based primarily on price, product features, reputation, delivery times, and customer support. We believe that our brand name is well recognized in the industry and helps us compete in the karaoke machine category. Our primary competitors for producing karaoke music are Pocket Songs, UAV, Sybersound and Sound Choice. We believe that competition for karaoke music is based primarily on popularity of song titles, price, reputation, and delivery times. As far as the musical instrument market, our key competitors include Yamaha, ION, and others. For Bratz products, our competitors are Memorex and Emerson, which also make licensed products for youth electronics. In addition, we compete with all other existing forms of entertainment including, but not limited to, motion pictures, video arcade games, home video games, theme parks, nightclubs, television and prerecorded tapes, CD's, and videocassettes. Our financial position depends, among other things, on our ability to keep pace with changes and developments in the entertainment industry and to respond to the requirements of our customers. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, and operating resources and broader product lines than we do. 6 TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS We have obtained registered trademarks for The Singing Machine name and the logo in the United States and in the European Union. We have also filed trademark applications in Australia and Hong Kong. We also filed various trademarks for our products. In the past few years, we have also obtained two U.S. patents for karaoke machines. Our trademarks are a significant asset because they provide product recognition. We believe that our intellectual property is significantly protected, but there are no assurances that these rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES We hold federal and international copyrights to substantially all of the music productions comprising our song library. However, since each of those productions is a re-recording of an original work by others, we are subject to contractual and/or statutory licensing agreements with the publishers who own or control the copyrights of the underlying musical compositions. We are obligated to pay royalties to the holders of such copyrights for the original music and lyrics of all of the songs in our library that have not passed into the public domain. We are currently a party to many different written copyright license agreements. The majority of the songs in our song library are subject to written copyright license agreements, often times referred to as synchronization licenses. Our written licensing agreements for music provide for royalties to be paid on each song. The actual rate of royalty is negotiable, but typically ranges from $0.09 to $0.15 per song on each CD that is sold. Similarly, the terms of the licenses vary, but typically range from 2 to 5 years. Our written licenses typically provide for quarterly royalty payments, although some publishers require reporting on a semi-annual basis. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our karaoke machines must meet the safety standards imposed in various national, state, local, and provincial jurisdictions. Our karaoke machines sold in the United States are designed, manufactured and tested to meet the safety standards of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. ("ULE") or Electronic Testing Laboratories ("ETL"). In Europe and other foreign countries, our products are manufactured to meet the Consumer Electronics (“CE”) marking requirements. CE marking is a mandatory European product marking and certification system for certain designated products. When affixed to a product and product packaging, CE marking indicates that a particular product complies with all applicable European product safety, health and environmental requirements within the CE marking system. Products complying with CE marking are now accepted to be safe in 28 European countries. However, ULE or ETL certification does not mean that a product complies with the product safety, health and environmental regulations contained in all fifty states in the United States. Therefore, we maintain a quality control program designed to ensure compliance with all applicable US and federal laws pertaining to the sale of our products. Our production and sale of music products is subject to federal copyright laws. The manufacturing operations of our foreign suppliers in China are subject to foreign regulation. China has permanent "normal trade relations" ("NTR") status under US tariff laws, which provides a favorable category of US import duties. China's NTR status became permanent on January 1, 2002. This substantially reduces the possibility of China losing its NTR status, which would result in increasing costs for us. SEASONALITY AND SEASONAL FINANCING Our business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of karaoke purchases around the traditional holiday season in our second and third quarter. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times cause risk to our business associated with the underproduction or overproduction of products that do not match consumer demand. Retailers also attempt to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring that we ship products closer to the time that retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that we may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times, or that our own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. As of March 31, 2008, we had inventory of $3.5 million (net of reserves totaling $497,985) compared to inventory of $2.3 million as of March 31, 2007 (net of reserves totaling $198,848 million). Our financing of seasonal working capital during fiscal 2007 was from vendor financing and factoring the accounts receivables. Our major shareholder, Starlight International, is willing and able to provide the financing to the Company until March 31, 2008. During fiscal 2008, we plan on financing our inventory purchases by using credit lines that have been extended to us by the factories in China and with letters of credit that are issued by our customers to be used as collateral for payment to our vendors. BACKLOG We ship our products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by our customers, which usually request delivery within three months of the date of the order. In the consumer electronics industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. In recent years, a trend toward just-in-time inventory practices in the consumer electronics industry has resulted in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders for the Company. We believe that backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales. We believe that we will be able to fill all of these orders in fiscal year 2009. However, these orders can be cancelled or modified at any time prior to delivery. This backlog does not take into account of any sales ordered by customers directly from our domestic inventory with order turnaround time of one to two weeks. We normally have to keep the minimum inventory in our domestic warehouses for this type of sales. 7 EMPLOYEES As of July 1, 2008 we employed twenty people, all of whom are full-time employees, with the exception of our chief executive officer who divides his time between the Company and his legal practice. One of our employees is located at SMC Macau’s offices. The remaining employees are based in the United States, including one executive officer, five engaged in warehousing and technical support and thirteen in accounting, marketing, sales and administrative functions. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE ENTERED INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH STARLIGHT TO MANAGE THEIR LOGISTICS AND FULFILLMENT SERVICES IN THE UNITED STATES. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PERFORM UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR REVENUES AND CASH FLOW. On May 23, 2008 we entered into a services agreement to receive orders, warehouse, and ship all of the Starlight Group’s United States domestic goods. The value of this contract is approximately $1.1 million dollars per year. If we are unable to perform the duties under this contract, it could negatively impact our revenue and cash flow. WE ARE RELYING ON A FACTORING FACILITY TO FINANCE OUR ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE. THE LOSS OF THE FACTORING FACILITY MAY CAUSE A PROBLEM TO FULFILL THE CUSTOMER ORDERS AND THE LOSS OF THE REVENUES. We currently have a factoring facility with CIT Group/Commercial Services to finance our accounts receivable. If we lose our banking facility, we may need to borrow a bridge loan or request the factories to extend the payment terms. If we fail to do so, we may suffer cash flow problems and not be able to fulfill customer orders. THE MUSIC INDUSTRY HAS BEEN EXPERIENCING CONTINUING DECLINE OF COMPACT DISC (CD) SALES. OUR KARAOKE CD SALES COULD DECLINE FURTHER IN THE FUTURE. Due to the expansion of the music download business, the sales of Compact Discs (CD) have been declining in recent years. Our karaoke CD sale has been declining since year 2004 and may continue to decline in the future. Music revenue accounts for approximately 1% of our total revenues. A SMALL NUMBER OF OUR CUSTOMERS ACCOUNT FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, AND THE LOSS OF ONE OR MORE OF THESE KEY CUSTOMERS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND CASH FLOW. We rely on a few large customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. As a percentage of total revenues, our net sales to our five largest customers during the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately 62% and 57%, respectively. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with any of our customers and they can cancel their orders at any time prior to delivery. A substantial reduction in or termination of orders from any of our largest customers would decrease our revenues and cash flow. WE ARE RELYING ON ONE FACTORY TO MANUFACTURE AND PRODUCE THE MAJORITY OF OUR KARAOKE MACHINES FOR FISCAL 2009, AND IF THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THIS FACTORY IS DAMAGED OR INJURED IN ANY WAY, IT WOULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. We have worked out a written agreement with a factory in China to produce most of our karaoke machines for fiscal 2009. If the factory is unwilling or unable to deliver our karaoke machines to us, our business will be adversely affected. Because our cash on hand is minimal, we are relying on revenues received from the sale of our ordered karaoke machines to provide cash flow for our operations. If we do not receive cash from these sales, we may not be able to continue our business operations. 8 WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISK THAT SOME OF OUR LARGE CUSTOMERS MAY RETURN KARAOKE PRODUCTS THAT THEY HAVE PURCHASED FROM US AND IF THIS HAPPENS, IT WOULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, a number of our customers and distributors returned karaoke products that they had purchased from us. Our customers returned goods valued at $2.9 million or 8.6% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. A majority of these returns resulted from defective manufacturing from two of our main factories. These factories have agreed to waive a majority of the repair and freight charges due to the abnormally high percentage of returns. If this occurs again in the future and our factories are unwilling to waive repair or freight costs this will adversely reduce our revenues and profitability. If any of our customers were to return karaoke products to us, it would reduce our revenues and profitability. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PRESSURE FROM OUR CUSTOMERS RELATING TO PRICE REDUCTION AND FINANCIAL INCENTIVES AND IF WE ARE PRESSURED TO MAKE THESE CONCESSIONS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, IT WILL REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. Because there is intense competition in the karaoke industry, we are subject to pricing pressure from our customers. Many of our customers have demanded that we lower our prices or they will buy our competitor's products. If we do not meet our customer's demands for lower prices, we will not sell as many karaoke products. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, our sales to customers in the United States decreased because of increased price competition. We are also subject to pressure from our customers regarding certain financial incentives, such as return credits or large advertising or cooperative advertising allowances, which effectively reduce our profit. We gave advertising allowances of approximately $458,099 during fiscal 2008 and $200,000 during fiscal 2007. We have historically offered advertising allowances to our customers because it is standard practice in the retail industry. WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY FORECASTING THE DEMAND FOR OUR KARAOKE PRODUCTS AND IF WE DO NOT ACCURATELY FORECAST DEMAND, OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOW MAY BE AFFECTED. Because of our reliance on manufacturers in China for our machine production, our production lead times range from one to four months. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customers orders. It is difficult to forecast customer demand because we do not have any scientific or quantitative method to predict this demand. Our forecasting is based on management's general expectations about customer demand, the general strength of the retail market and management's historical experiences. We overestimated demand for our products in fiscal 2003 and 2004 and had $5.9 million in inventory as of March 31, 2004. Because of this excess inventory, we had liquidity problems in fiscal 2005 and our revenues, net income and cash flow were adversely affected. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE COSTS AND RISKS OF CARRYING INVENTORY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND IF WE HAVE TOO MUCH INVENTORY, IT WILL AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND NET INCOME. Many of our customers place orders with us several months prior to the holiday season, but they schedule delivery two or three weeks before the holiday season begins. As such, we are subject to the risks and costs of carrying inventory during the time period between the placement or the order and the delivery date, which reduces our cash flow. As of March 31, 2008 we had $3.5 million in inventory on hand. It is important that we sell this inventory during fiscal 2009, so we have sufficient cash flow for operations. OUR GROSS PROFIT MARGINS HAVE DECREASED OVER THE PAST YEAR AND WE EXPECT A COMPETITIVE MARKET. Over the past year, our gross profit margins have generally decreased due to competition and increasing costs except for fiscal 2005 when we developed several new models, which were in demand and yielded higher profit margins. We expect that our gross profit margin might decrease under downward pressure in fiscal 2009 because of currency fluctuations, increasing labor costs and the increasing cost of petroleum based raw materials and services which is affecting the entire market segment. OUR BUSINESS IS SEASONAL AND THEREFORE OUR ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS WILL DEPEND, IN LARGE PART, ON OUR SALES DURING THE RELATIVELY BRIEF HOLIDAY SEASON. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season, which includes Christmas. A substantial majority of our sales occur during the second quarter ending September 30 and the third quarter ending December 31. Sales in our second and third quarter, combined, accounted for approximately 87.0%, 94.0%, and 87.5% of net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE IN THE KARAOKE PRODUCTS CATEGORY, OUR REVENUES AND NET PROFITABILITY WILL BE REDUCED. Our major competitors for karaoke machines and related products are Memorex and GPX. We believe that competition for karaoke machines is based primarily on price, product features, reputation, delivery times, and customer support. Our primary competitors for producing karaoke music are Compass, Pocket Songs, Sybersound, UAV and Sound Choice. We believe that competition for karaoke music is based primarily on popularity of song titles, price, reputation, and delivery times. To the extent that we lower prices to attempt to enhance or retain market share, we may adversely impact our operating margins. Conversely, if we opt not to match competitor's price reductions we may lose market share, resulting in decreased volume and revenue. To the extent our leading competitors reduce prices on their karaoke machines and music; we must remain flexible to reduce our prices. If we are forced to reduce our prices, it will result in lower margins and reduced profitability. Because of intense competition in the karaoke industry in the United States during fiscal 2008, we expect that the intense pricing pressure in the low end of the market will continue in the karaoke market in the United States in fiscal 2009. In addition, we must compete with all the other existing forms of entertainment including, but not limited to: motion pictures, video arcade games, home video games, theme parks, nightclubs, television, prerecorded tapes, CD's, and video cassettes. 9 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW KARAOKE PRODUCTS, OUR REVENUES MAY NOT CONTINUE TO GROW. The karaoke industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and ongoing customer demands for greater performance. In addition, the average selling price of any karaoke machine has historically decreased over its life, and we expect that trend to continue. As a result, our products may not be competitive if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet evolving customer demands. The development of new products is complex, and we may not be able to complete development in a timely manner. To introduce products on a timely basis, we must: · accurately define and design new products to meet market needs; · design features that continue to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · transition our products to new manufacturing process technologies; · identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; · anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers' products; · bring products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; and · respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others. We believe that we will need to continue to enhance our karaoke machines and develop new machines to keep pace with competitive and technological developments and to achieve market acceptance for our products. At the same time, we need to identify and develop other products which may be different from karaoke machines. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SHIPPED FROM CHINA AND ANY DISRUPTION OF SHIPPING COULD PREVENT OR DELAY OUR CUSTOMERS' RECEIPT OF INVENTORY. We rely principally on four contract ocean carriers to ship virtually all of the products that we import to our warehouse facility in City of Industry, California. Retailers that take delivery of our products in China rely on a variety of carriers to import those products. Any disruptions in shipping, whether in California or China, caused by labor strikes, other labor disputes, terrorism, and international incidents may prevent or delay our customers' receipt of inventory. If our customers do not receive their inventory on a timely basis, they may cancel their orders or return products to us. Consequently, our revenues and net income would be reduced. OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, SUBJECTING US TO RISKS COMMON IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. IF THERE IS ANY PROBLEM WITH THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS, OUR REVENUES AND NET PROFITABILITY MAY BE REDUCED. We are using eight factories in the People's Republic of China to manufacture the majority of our karaoke machines. These factories will be producing nearly all of our karaoke products in fiscal 2009. Our arrangements with these factories are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as import duties, trade restrictions, work stoppages, and foreign currency fluctuations, limitations on the repatriation of earnings and political instability, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have limited control over the manufacturing processes. As a result, any difficulties encountered by our third-party manufacturers that result in product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Also, since we do not have written agreements with any of these factories, we are subject to additional uncertainty if the factories do not deliver products to us on a timely basis. WE DEPEND ON THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS FOR PARTS FOR OUR KARAOKE MACHINES AND RELATED PRODUCTS, AND IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN SUPPLIES AS NEEDED, OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE SEVERELY DAMAGED. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of karaoke machines and our electronic products. We rely on third party suppliers to produce the parts and materials we use to manufacture and produce these products. If our suppliers are unable to provide our factories with the parts and supplies, we will be unable to produce our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to purchase the parts we need at reasonable prices or in a timely fashion. In the last several years, there have been shortages of certain chips that we use in our karaoke machines. If we are unable to anticipate any shortages of parts and materials in the future, we may experience severe production problems, which would impact our sales. 10 CONSUMER DISCRETIONARY SPENDING MAY AFFECT KARAOKE PURCHASES AND IS AFFECTED BY VARIOUS ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND CHANGES. Our business and financial performance may be damaged more than most companies by adverse financial conditions affecting our business or by a general weakening of the economy. Purchases of karaoke machines and music are considered discretionary for consumers. Our success will therefore be influenced by a number of economic factors affecting discretionary and consumer spending, such as employment levels, business, interest rates, and taxation rates, all of which are not under our control. Additionally, other extraordinary events such as terrorist attacks or military engagements, which adversely affect the retail environment may restrict consumer spending and thereby adversely affect our sales growth and profitability. WE MAY HAVE INFRINGED THE COPYRIGHTS OF CERTAIN MUSIC PUBLISHERS AND IF WE VIOLATE FEDERAL COPYRIGHT LAWS, WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO MONETARY PENALTIES. Over the past several years, the Singing Machine (like its competitors) has received notices from certain music publishers alleging that the full range of necessary rights in their copyrighted works has not been properly licensed in order to sell those works as part of products known as “compact discs with graphics” ("CDG"s). CDG's are compact discs which contain the musical recordings of karaoke songs and graphics which contain the lyrics of the songs. Singing Machine has negotiated licenses with the complaining parties. As with any alleged copyright violations, unlicensed users may be subject to damages under the U.S. Copyright Act. Such damages and claims could have a negative effect on Singing Machine’s ability to sell its music products to its customers. This is the reason the Singing Machine diligently pursues licenses. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CLAIMS FROM THIRD PARTIES FOR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THEIR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, COPYRIGHTS OR TRADE SECRETS AND ANY CLAIMS ASSERTED AGAINST US COULD AFFECT OUR NET PROFITABILITY. We believe that we independently developed the technology used in our electronic and audio software products and that it does not infringe on the proprietary rights, copyrights or trade secrets of others. However, we cannot be sure that we have not infringed on the proprietary rights of third parties or those third parties will not make infringement violation claims against us. During fiscal 2000, Tanashin Denki, Ltd., a Japanese company that holds a patent on a cassette tape drive mechanism alleged that some of our karaoke machines violated their patents. We settled the matters with Tanashin in December 1999. Subsequently in December 2002, Tanashin again alleged that some of our karaoke machines violated their patents. We entered into another settlement agreement with them in May 2003. In addition to Tanashin, we could receive infringement claims from other third parties. Any infringement claims may have a negative effect on our profitability and financial condition. WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF OUR CUSTOMERS, WHO ARE EXPERIENCING FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES, AND IF THESE CUSTOMERS ARE UNABLE TO PAY US, OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY WILL BE REDUCED. We sell products to retailers, including department stores, lifestyle merchants, direct mail catalogs and showrooms, national chains, specialty stores, and warehouse clubs. Some of these retailers, such as K-Mart, FAO Schwarz and KB Toys, have engaged in leveraged buyouts or transactions in which they incurred a significant amount of debt, and operated under the protection of bankruptcy laws. As of July 2, 2007 we are aware of only three customers, FAO Schwarz, Musicland, and KB Toys, which are operating under the protection of bankruptcy laws. Deterioration in the financial condition of our customers could result in bad debt expense to us and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and future profitability. A DISRUPTION IN THE OPERATION OF OUR WAREHOUSE CENTERS IN CALIFORNIA OR FLORIDA COULD IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER MERCHANDISE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. A significant amount of our merchandise is shipped to our customers from one of our two warehouses, which are located in City of Industry, California, and Coconut Creek, Florida. Events such as fire or other catastrophic events, any malfunction or disruption of our centralized information systems or shipping problems may result in delays or disruptions in the timely distribution of merchandise to our customers, which could substantially decrease our revenues and profitability. OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS COULD BE DISRUPTED IF THERE ARE LABOR PROBLEMS ON THE WEST COAST. During fiscal 2008, approximately 49.0% of our sales were domestic warehouse sales, which were made from our warehouses in California and Florida. During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the dock strike on the West Coast affected sales of two of our karaoke products and we estimate that we lost between $3 and $5 million in orders because we could not get the containers of these products off the pier. If another strike or work slow-down occurs and we do not have a sufficient level of inventory, a strike or work slow-down would result in increased costs to us and may reduce our profitability. CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK During fiscal year 2008, the Chinese local currency has had no material effect on the value of the US dollar as Chinese local currency is pegged to the US dollar. 11 INCREASED RAW MATERIAL/PRODUCTION PRICING The fluctuations in the price of oil has and will continue to affect the Company in connection the sourcing and utilizing petroleum based raw materials and services. The cost of trans-oceanic shipping, plastic and the like are driving up the price our suppliers charge us for finished goods. Also, the there have been a series of labor related regulations instituted in China which impact wages and thus the cost of production which may result in our suppliers demanding higher prices for our finished goods. This issue is common to all companies in the same type of business and if the Company is not able to negotiate lower costs, or reduce other expenses, or pass on some or all of these price increases to our customers, our profit margin may be decreased. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE WHICH MAY CAUSE INVESTORS TO LOSE ALL OR A PORTION OF THEIR INVESTMENT. From December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2008, our common stock has traded between a high of $1.60 and a low of $0.21. During this period, we had liquidity problems and incurred a net loss of $1.9 million in fiscal 2006 and loss of $3.6 million in fiscal 2005. Our stock price may continue to be volatile based on similar or other adverse developments in our business. In addition, the stock market periodically experiences significant adverse price and volume fluctuations which may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. IF INVESTORS SHORT OUR SECURITIES, IT MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. During the past year, a number of investors have held a short position in our common stock. As of March 31, 2008, investors held a short position of approximately 30,400 shares of our common stock which represented 0.09% of our public float. The anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of our stock by some institutions or individuals who engage in short sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, if our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to raise capital. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DELISTED FROM THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE PRICING AND TRADING OF OUR COMMON STOCK. On September 6, 2006, the Company received notice from The American Stock Exchange (the "Amex") that the Company has fallen below the continued listing standards of the Amex and that its listing is being continued pursuant to an extension. Specifically, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Amex Company Guide with shareholders' equity of less than $4,000,000 and net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. The Company was successful in exercising a turnaround plan and on March 28, 2008, the Company received a notice from Amex stating that the Singing Machine has resolved the aforementioned listing deficiency and was restored to its full listing status. Amex has fully re-listed the Company as a member in good-standing; however the Company still needs to remain in compliance with Amex Company Guide Section 1009(h). If the company fails to remain in good standing, there is still a possibility of delisting. If our common stock is removed from listing on Amex, it may become more difficult for us to raise funds through the sales of our common stock or securities. IF OUR OUTSTANDING DERIVATIVE SECURITIES ARE EXERCISED OR CONVERTED, OUR EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS WILL SUFFER DILUTION. As of March 31, 2008, there were outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 1,029,296 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.32 to $11.09 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is approximately $1.44 per share. As of March 31, 2007, there were outstanding and immediately exercisable options to purchase an aggregate of 1,382,890. There were outstanding stock warrants to purchase 1,250,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $.35 per share, all of which are exercisable. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK HELD BY CURRENT STOCKHOLDERS AND INVESTORS MAY DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE. As of June 23, 2008 there were 31,841,728 shares of our common stock outstanding. We have filed two registration statements registering an aggregate 3,794,250 of shares of our common stock (a registration statement on Form S-8 to register the sale of 1,844,250 shares underlying options granted under our 1994 Stock Option Plan and a registration statement on Form S-8 to register 1,950,000 shares of our common stock underlying options granted under our Year 2001 Stock Option Plan). An additional registration statement on Form S-1 was filed in October 2003, registering an aggregate of 2,795,465 shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could drop due to the sale of large number of shares of our common stock, such as the shares sold pursuant to the registration statements or under Rule 144, or the perception that these sales could occur. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECREASE IF WE ISSUE ADDITIONAL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 100,000,000 shares of common stock as amended in January 2006. As of June 23, 2008 we had 31,841,728 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and an aggregate of 3,484,593 shares issuable under our outstanding options and warrants. As such, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 64,673,679 shares of common stock. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock, whether by us to new stockholders or the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of our outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our then existing stockholders. 12 PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE OUR COMPANY AND COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation include: authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock, limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders, and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our internal controls over financial reporting may have weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure of our management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. . THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SEVERAL FACTORS. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including: ◦ our ability to execute our business plan; ◦ operating results below expectations; ◦ loss of any strategic relationship; ◦ industry developments; ◦ economic and other external factors; and ◦ period-to-period fluctuations in its financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. WE HAVE NOT PAID CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE PAST AND DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE. ANY RETURN ON INVESTMENT MAY BE LIMITED TO THE VALUE OF OUR STOCK. We have never paid cash dividends on our stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay cash dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 