Risk Factors - We are relying on one factory to manufacture and produce the majority of our karaoke machines for fiscal 2010" on page 9). In manufacturing our karaoke related products, these factories use molds and certain other tooling, most of which are owned by us. Our products contain electronic components manufactured by other companies such as Panasonic, Sanyo, Toshiba, and Sony. Our manufacturers purchase and install these electronic components in our karaoke machines and related products. The finished products are packaged and labeled under our trademark, The Singing Machine(R) and private labels. We use outside companies to mass-produce the CD+G's once the masters have been completed. While our equipment manufacturers purchase our supplies from a small number of large suppliers, all of the electronic components and raw materials used by us are available from several sources of supply. We depend on limited suppliers for some key components and the loss of any single supplier may have a material long-term adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition. To ensure that our high standards of product quality are met and that factories consistently meet our shipping schedules, we utilize Hong Kong and China based employees as our representatives. These employees include product inspectors who are knowledgeable about product specifications and work closely with the factories to verify that such specifications are met. Additionally, key personnel frequently visit our factories for quality assurance and to support good working relationships. All of the electronic equipment sold by us is warranted to the end user against manufacturing defects for a period of ninety (90) days for labor and parts. All music sold is similarly warranted for a period of 30 days. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, warranty claims have not been material to our results of operations. COMPETITION Our business is highly competitive. Our major competitors for karaoke machines and related products are Memorex, GPX and other consumer electronics companies. We believe that competition for karaoke machines is based primarily on price, product features, reputation, delivery times, and customer support. We believe that our brand name is well recognized in the industry and helps us compete in the karaoke machine category. Our primary competitors for producing karaoke music are Pocket Songs, UAV, Sybersound and Sound Choice. We believe that competition for karaoke music is based primarily on popularity of song titles, price, reputation, and delivery times. As far as the musical instrument market, our key competitors include Yamaha, ION, and others. For Bratz products, our competitors are Memorex and Emerson, which also make licensed products for youth electronics. In addition, we compete with all other existing forms of entertainment including, but not limited to, motion pictures, video arcade games, home video games, theme parks, nightclubs, television and prerecorded tapes, CD's, and videocassettes. Our financial position depends, among other things, on our ability to keep pace with changes and developments in the entertainment industry and to respond to the requirements of our customers. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, and operating resources and broader product lines than we do. TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS We have obtained registered trademarks for The Singing Machine name and the logo in the U.S. and in the European Union. We have also filed trademark applications in Australia and Hong Kong. We also filed various trademarks for our products. In 2003 we also obtained two U.S. design patents for karaoke machines, patent numbers US D505,960 S and US D524,325 S which expire in 2017. Our trademarks are a significant asset because they provide product recognition. We believe that our intellectual property is significantly protected, but there are no assurances that these rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES We hold federal and international copyrights to substantially all of the music productions comprising our song library. However, since each of those productions is a re-recording of an original work by others, we are subject to contractual and/or statutory licensing agreements with the publishers who own or control the copyrights of the underlying musical compositions. We are obligated to pay royalties to the holders of such copyrights for the original music and lyrics of all of the songs in our library that have not passed into the public domain. We are currently a party to many different written copyright license agreements. 8 The majority of the songs in our song library are subject to written copyright license agreements, often times referred to as synchronization licenses. Our written licensing agreements for music provide for royalties to be paid on each song. The actual rate of royalty is negotiable, but typically ranges from $0.09 to $0.15 per song on each CD that is sold. Similarly, the terms of the licenses vary, but typically range from 2 to 5 years. Our written licenses typically provide for quarterly royalty payments, although some publishers require reporting on a semi-annual basis. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our karaoke machines must meet the safety standards imposed in various national, state, local, and provincial jurisdictions. Our karaoke machines sold in the U.S. are designed, manufactured and tested to meet the safety standards of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. ("ULE") or Electronic Testing Laboratories ("ETL"). In Europe and other foreign countries, our products are manufactured to meet the Consumer Electronics (“CE”) marking requirements. CE marking is a mandatory European product marking and certification system for certain designated products. When affixed to a product and product packaging, CE marking indicates that a particular product complies with all applicable European product safety, health and environmental requirements within the CE marking system. Products complying with CE marking are now accepted to be safe in 28 European countries. However, ULE or ETL certification does not mean that a product complies with the product safety, health and environmental regulations contained in all fifty states in the United States. Therefore, we maintain a quality control program designed to ensure compliance with all applicable U.S. and federal laws pertaining to the sale of our products. Our production and sale of music products is subject to federal copyright laws. The manufacturing operations of our foreign suppliers in China are subject to foreign regulation. China has permanent "normal trade relations" ("NTR") status under U.S. tariff laws, which provides a favorable category of U.S. import duties. China's NTR status became permanent on January 1, 2002. This substantially reduces the possibility of China losing its NTR status, which would result in increasing costs for us. SEASONALITY AND SEASONAL FINANCING Our business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of karaoke purchases around the traditional holiday season in our second and third quarter ending September 30 and December 31. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times cause risk to our business associated with the underproduction or overproduction of products that do not match consumer demand. Retailers also attempt to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring that we ship products closer to the time that retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that we may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times, or that our own inventory levels may be adversely affected by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. As of March 31, 2009, we had inventory of $4.7 million (net of reserves totaling $745,389) compared to inventory of $3.5 million as of March 31, 2008 (net of reserves totaling $497,985). Our financing of seasonal working capital during fiscal 2009 was from vendor financing and factoring the accounts receivables. We anticipate our affiliate, Starlight International, will provide financing to the Company through March 31, 2010. During Fiscal 2010, we plan on financing our inventory purchases by using credit lines that have been extended to us by the factories in China, a letter of credit facility to pay factories provided by our DBS financing facility and with letters of credit that are issued by our customers to be used as collateral for payment to our vendors. EMPLOYEES As of June 15, 2009 we employed thirty people, all of whom are full-time employees, with the exception of our chief executive officer who divides his time between managing the Company and his legal practice. Two of our employees are located at SMC Macau’s offices. The remaining employees are based in the U.S., including one executive officer, fifteen engaged in warehousing and administrative logistics/technical support and thirteen in accounting, marketing, sales and administrative functions. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Annual Report. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE ENTERED INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH OUR AFFILIATES, STARLITE CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (USA), INC. AND COSMO COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, TO MANAGE THEIR LOGISTICS AND FULFILLMENT SERVICES IN THE UNITED STATES. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PERFORM UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR REVENUES AND CASH FLOW. On May 23, 2008 we entered into a services agreement to receive orders, warehouse, and ship all of the Starlight Group’s U.S. domestic goods. The value of this contract is approximately $1.1 million per year. If we are unable to perform the duties under this contract, it could negatively impact our revenue and cash flow. 9 WE ARE RELYING ON A FACTORING FACILITY TO FINANCE OUR ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE. THE LOSS OF THE FACTORING FACILITY MAY CAUSE A PROBLEM TO FULFILL THE CUSTOMER ORDERS AND THE LOSS OF THE REVENUES. We currently have a factoring facility with DBS Bank (Macao Branch) to finance our accounts receivable. If we lose our banking facility, we may need to borrow a bridge loan or request the factories to extend the payment terms. If we fail to do so, we may suffer cash flow problems and not be able to fulfill customer orders. THE MUSIC INDUSTRY HAS BEEN EXPERIENCING CONTINUING DECLINE OF COMPACT DISC (CD) SALES. OUR KARAOKE CD SALES COULD DECLINE FURTHER IN THE FUTURE. Due to the expansion of the music download business, the sales of Compact Discs (CD) have been declining in recent years. Our karaoke CD sale has been declining since year 2004 and may continue to decline in the future. Music revenue accounts for less than 1% of our total revenues. A SMALL NUMBER OF OUR CUSTOMERS ACCOUNT FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, AND THE LOSS OF ONE OR MORE OF THESE KEY CUSTOMERS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND CASH FLOW. We rely on a few large customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. As a percentage of total revenues, our net sales to our five largest customers during the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately 61% and 62%, respectively. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with any of our customers and they can cancel their orders at any time prior to delivery. A substantial reduction in or termination of orders from any of our largest customers would decrease our revenues and cash flow. WE ARE RELYING ON OUR AFFILIATE COMPANIES WHICH ARE A PART OF THE STARLIGHT GROUP TO MANUFACTURE AND PRODUCE THE MAJORITY OF OUR KARAOKE MACHINES FOR FISCAL 2010, AND IF THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THIS FACTORY IS DAMAGED OR INJURED IN ANY WAY, IT WOULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. We have worked out an agreement with our main supplier in China to produce most of our karaoke machines for fiscal 2010. If the factory is unable to deliver our karaoke machines to us, our business will be adversely affected. Because our cash on hand is minimal, we are relying on revenues received from the sale of our ordered karaoke machines to provide cash flow for our operations. If we do not receive cash from these sales, we may not be able to continue our business operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISK THAT SOME OF OUR LARGE CUSTOMERS MAY RETURN KARAOKE PRODUCTS THAT THEY HAVE PURCHASED FROM US AND IF THIS HAPPENS, IT WOULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, a number of our customers and distributors returned karaoke products that they had purchased from us. Our customers returned goods valued at $3.1 million or 9.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. A majority of these returns resulted from defective manufacturing from two of our main factories. These factories have agreed to waive a majority of the repair and freight charges due to the abnormally high percentage of returns. If this occurs again in the future and our factories are unwilling to waive repair or freight costs this will adversely reduce our revenues and profitability. If any of our customers were to return karaoke products to us, it would reduce our revenues and profitability. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PRESSURE FROM OUR CUSTOMERS RELATING TO PRICE REDUCTION AND FINANCIAL INCENTIVES AND IF WE ARE PRESSURED TO MAKE THESE CONCESSIONS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, IT WILL REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. Because there is intense competition in the karaoke industry, we are subject to pricing pressure from our customers. Many of our customers have demanded that we lower our prices or they will buy our competitor's products. If we do not meet our customer's demands for lower prices, we will not sell as many karaoke products. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, our sales to customers in the United States decreased because of increased price competition and deteriorating economic conditions. We are also subject to pressure from our customers regarding certain financial incentives, such as return credits or large advertising or cooperative advertising allowances, which effectively reduce our profit. We gave advertising allowances of approximately $339,343 during fiscal 2009 and $458,099 during fiscal 2008. We have historically offered advertising allowances to our customers because it is standard practice in the retail industry. WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY FORECASTING THE DEMAND FOR OUR KARAOKE PRODUCTS AND IF WE DO NOT ACCURATELY FORECAST DEMAND, OUR REVENUES, NET INCOME AND CASH FLOW MAY BE AFFECTED. Because of our reliance on manufacturers in China for our machine production, our production lead times range from one to four months. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customers orders. It is difficult to forecast customer demand because we do not have any scientific or quantitative method to predict this demand. Our forecasting is based on management's general expectations about customer demand, the general strength of the retail market and management's historical experiences. We overestimated demand for our products in fiscal 2003 and 2004 and had $5.9 million in inventory as of March 31, 2004. Because of this excess inventory, we had liquidity problems in fiscal 2005 and our revenues, net income and cash flow were adversely affected. 10 WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE COSTS AND RISKS OF CARRYING INVENTORY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND IF WE HAVE TOO MUCH INVENTORY, IT WILL AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND NET INCOME. Many of our customers place orders with us several months prior to the holiday season, but they schedule delivery two or three weeks before the holiday season begins. As such, we are subject to the risks and costs of carrying inventory during the time period between the placement or the order and the delivery date, which reduces our cash flow. As of March 31, 2009 we had $4.7 million in inventory on hand. It is important that we sell this inventory during fiscal 2010, so we have sufficient cash flow for operations. OUR GROSS PROFIT MARGINS HAVE DECREASED OVER THE PAST YEAR AND WE EXPECT A COMPETITIVE MARKET. Over the past year, our gross profit margins have generally decreased due to competition, increasing costs and deteriorating economic conditions except for fiscal 2005 when we developed several new models, which were in demand and yielded higher profit margins. We expect that our gross profit margin might stabilize in fiscal 2010 provided that the worldwide economy begins to recover. OUR BUSINESS IS SEASONAL AND THEREFORE OUR ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS WILL DEPEND, IN LARGE PART, ON OUR SALES DURING THE RELATIVELY BRIEF HOLIDAY SEASON. Sales of consumer electronics and toy products in the retail channel are highly seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season, which includes Christmas. A substantial majority of our sales occur during the second quarter ending September 30 and the third quarter ending December 31. Sales in our second and third quarter, combined, accounted for approximately 92.0%, 87.0%, and 94.0% of net sales in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE IN THE KARAOKE PRODUCTS CATEGORY, OUR REVENUES AND NET PROFITABILITY WILL BE REDUCED. Our major competitors for karaoke machines and related products are Memorex and GPX. We believe that competition for karaoke machines is based primarily on price, product features, reputation, delivery times, and customer support. Our primary competitors for producing karaoke music are Compass, Pocket Songs, Sybersound, UAV and Sound Choice. We believe that competition for karaoke music is based primarily on popularity of song titles, price, reputation, and delivery times. To the extent that we lower prices to attempt to enhance or retain market share, we may adversely impact our operating margins. Conversely, if we opt not to match competitor's price reductions we may lose market share, resulting in decreased volume and revenue. To the extent our leading competitors reduce prices on their karaoke machines and music; we must remain flexible to reduce our prices. If we are forced to reduce our prices, it will result in lower margins and reduced profitability. Because of intense competition in the karaoke industry in the United States during fiscal 2009, we expect that the intense pricing pressure in the low end of the market will continue in the karaoke market in the United States in fiscal 2010. In addition, we must compete with all the other existing forms of entertainment including, but not limited to: motion pictures, video arcade games, home video games, theme parks, nightclubs, television, prerecorded tapes, CD's, and video cassettes. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW KARAOKE PRODUCTS, OUR REVENUES MAY NOT CONTINUE TO GROW. The karaoke industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and ongoing customer demands for greater performance. In addition, the average selling price of any karaoke machine has historically decreased over its life, and we expect that trend to continue. As a result, our products may not be competitive if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet evolving customer demands. The development of new products is complex, and we may not be able to complete development in a timely manner. To introduce products on a timely basis, we must: · accurately define and design new products to meet market needs; · design features that continue to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · transition our products to new manufacturing process technologies; · identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; · anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers' products; · bring products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; and · respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others. 11 We believe that we will need to continue to enhance our karaoke machines and develop new machines to keep pace with competitive and technological developments and to achieve market acceptance for our products. At the same time, we need to identify and develop other products which may be different from karaoke machines. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SHIPPED FROM CHINA AND ANY DISRUPTION OF SHIPPING COULD PREVENT OR DELAY OUR CUSTOMERS' RECEIPT OF INVENTORY. We rely principally on four contract ocean carriers to ship virtually all of the products that we import to our warehouse facility in City of Industry, California. Retailers that take delivery of our products in China rely on a variety of carriers to import those products. Any disruptions in shipping, whether in California or China, caused by labor strikes, other labor disputes, terrorism, and international incidents may prevent or delay our customers' receipt of inventory. If our customers do not receive their inventory on a timely basis, they may cancel their orders or return products to us. Consequently, our revenues and net income would be reduced and our results of operations adversely affected. OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, SUBJECTING US TO RISKS COMMON IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. IF THERE IS ANY PROBLEM WITH THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS, OUR REVENUES AND NET PROFITABILITY MAY BE REDUCED. We are using four factories in the People's Republic of China to manufacture the majority of our karaoke machines. These factories will be producing nearly all of our karaoke products in fiscal 2010. Our arrangements with these factories are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, such as import duties, trade restrictions, work stoppages, and foreign currency fluctuations, limitations on the repatriation of earnings and political instability, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have limited control over the manufacturing processes. As a result, any difficulties encountered by our third-party manufacturers that result in product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Also, since we do not have written agreements with any of these factories, we are subject to additional uncertainty if the factories do not deliver products to us on a timely basis. WE DEPEND ON THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS FOR PARTS FOR OUR KARAOKE MACHINES AND RELATED PRODUCTS, AND IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN SUPPLIES AS NEEDED, OUR OPERATIONS WILL BE SEVERELY DAMAGED. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our capability to obtain timely deliveries of karaoke machines and our electronic products. We rely on third party suppliers to produce the parts and materials we use to manufacture and produce these products. If our suppliers are unable to provide our factories with the parts and supplies, we will be unable to produce our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to purchase the parts we need at reasonable prices or in a timely fashion. In the last several years, there have been shortages of certain chips that we use in our karaoke machines. If we are unable to anticipate any shortages of parts and materials in the future, we may experience severe production problems, which would impact our sales. CONSUMER DISCRETIONARY SPENDING MAY AFFECT KARAOKE PURCHASES AND IS AFFECTED BY VARIOUS ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND CHANGES. Our business and financial performance may be damaged more than most companies by adverse financial conditions affecting our business or by a general weakening of the economy. Purchases of karaoke machines and music are considered discretionary for consumers. Our success will therefore be influenced by a number of economic factors affecting discretionary and consumer spending, such as employment levels, business, interest rates, and taxation rates, all of which are not under our control. Additionally, other extraordinary events such as terrorist attacks or military engagements, which adversely affect the retail environment may restrict consumer spending and thereby adversely affect our sales growth and profitability. WE MAY HAVE INFRINGED THE COPYRIGHTS OF CERTAIN MUSIC PUBLISHERS AND IF WE VIOLATE FEDERAL COPYRIGHT LAWS, WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO MONETARY PENALTIES. Over the past several years, the Singing Machine (like its competitors) has received notices from certain music publishers alleging that the full range of necessary rights in their copyrighted works has not been properly licensed in order to sell those works as part of products known as “compact discs with graphics” ("CDG"s). CDG's are compact discs which contain the musical recordings of karaoke songs and graphics which contain the lyrics of the songs. Singing Machine has negotiated licenses with the complaining parties. As with any alleged copyright violations, unlicensed users may be subject to damages under the U.S. Copyright Act. Such damages and claims could have a negative effect on Singing Machine’s ability to sell its music products to its customers. This is the reason the Singing Machine diligently pursues licenses. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CLAIMS FROM THIRD PARTIES FOR UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THEIR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY, COPYRIGHTS OR TRADE SECRETS AND ANY CLAIMS ASSERTED AGAINST US COULD AFFECT OUR NET PROFITABILITY. We believe that we independently developed the technology used in our electronic and audio software products and that it does not infringe on the proprietary rights, copyrights or trade secrets of others. However, we cannot be sure that we have not infringed on the proprietary rights of third parties or those third parties will not make infringement violation claims against us. During fiscal 2000, Tanashin Denki, Ltd., a Japanese company that holds a patent on a cassette tape drive mechanism alleged that some of our karaoke machines violated their patents. We settled the matters with Tanashin in December 1999. Subsequently in December 2002, Tanashin again alleged that some of our karaoke machines violated their patents. We entered into another settlement agreement with them in May 2003. In addition to Tanashin, we could receive infringement claims from other third parties. Any infringement claims may have a negative effect on our profitability and financial condition. 12 WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF OUR CUSTOMERS, WHO ARE EXPERIENCING FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES, AND IF THESE CUSTOMERS ARE UNABLE TO PAY US, OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY WILL BE REDUCED. We sell products to retailers, including department stores, lifestyle merchants, direct mail catalogs and showrooms, national chains, specialty stores, and warehouse clubs. Some of these retailers, such as K-Mart, FAO Schwarz and KB Toys, have engaged in leveraged buyouts or transactions in which they incurred a significant amount of debt, and operated under the protection of bankruptcy laws. As of June 15, 2009 we are aware of only four customers, FAO Schwarz, Musicland, KB Toys, and e-Toys, which are operating under the protection of bankruptcy laws. Deterioration in the financial condition of our customers could result in bad debt expense to us and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and future profitability. A DISRUPTION IN THE OPERATION OF OUR WAREHOUSE CENTERS IN CALIFORNIA OR FLORIDA COULD IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER MERCHANDISE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. A significant amount of our merchandise is shipped to our customers from one of our two warehouses, which are located in City of Industry, California, and Coconut Creek, Florida. Events such as fire or other catastrophic events, any malfunction or disruption of our centralized information systems or shipping problems may result in delays or disruptions in the timely distribution of merchandise to our customers, which could substantially decrease our revenues and profitability. OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS COULD BE DISRUPTED IF THERE ARE LABOR PROBLEMS ON THE WEST COAST. During fiscal 2009, approximately 46.0% of our sales were domestic warehouse sales, which were made from our warehouses in California and Florida. During the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the dock strike on the West Coast affected sales of two of our karaoke products and we estimate that we lost between $3 and $5 million in orders because we could not get the containers of these products off the pier. If another strike or work slow-down occurs and we do not have a sufficient level of inventory, a strike or work slow-down would result in increased costs to us and may reduce our profitability. CURRENT LEVELS OF SECURITIES AND FINANCIAL MARKET VOLATILITY ARE UNPRECEDENTED. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers. We believe these credit market disruptions have likely decreased our ability to access debt and equity financing. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK The majority of our products are currently manufactured in the People’s Republic of China. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the Chinese local currency had no material effect on the Company as all of our purchases are denominated in U.S. currency. However, in the event our purchases are required to be made in Chinese local currency, the Yuan, we will be subject to the risks involved in foreign exchange rates. Although currently pegged to the U.S. dollar, in the future the value of the Yuan may depend to a large extent on the Chinese government’s policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments. As a result, our production costs may increase if we are required to make purchases using the Yuan instead of the U.S. dollar and the value of the Yuan increases over time. Any significant increase in the cost of manufacturing our products would have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. INCREASED RAW MATERIAL/PRODUCTION PRICING The fluctuations in the price of oil has and will continue to affect the Company in connection the sourcing and utilizing petroleum based raw materials and services. The cost of trans-oceanic shipping, plastic and the like are driving up the price our suppliers charge us for finished goods. Also, there have been a series of labor related regulations instituted in China which impact wages and thus the cost of production which may result in our suppliers demanding higher prices for our finished goods. This issue is common to all companies in the same type of business and if the Company is not able to negotiate lower costs, or reduce other expenses, or pass on some or all of these price increases to our customers, our profit margin may be decreased. 13 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE DELISTED FROM AMEX, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE PRICING AND TRADING OF OUR COMMON STOCK. On September 16, 2008, the Company received notice from AMEX indicating that the Company was below certain requirements of AMEX’s continued listing standards as of June 30, 2008. Specifically, shareholders’ equity was less than $4,000,000 and there were losses from continuing operations in three of its four most recent fiscal years, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(ii) of AMEX’s Company Guide. In response, the Company submitted a timely plan of compliance to AMEX (the “Plan”). In a letter dated December 12, 2008 from AMEX, the Company was officially notified that AMEX had accepted the Company’s Plan and that the Company had until March 31, 2009 to complete the Plan and regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of AMEX’s Company Guide. AMEX Staff advised the Company that it would be subject to periodic review by AMEX during the extension period and that failure to make progress consistent with the Company’s Plan could result in delisting. Also in that same letter dated December 12, 2008, AMEX Staff notified the Company that it deemed the Company’s common stock selling price as too low. AMEX informed the Company that it must address its low selling price by June 12, 2009 in order to remain in compliance with AMEX Company Guide Section 1003(f)(v). In April 2009, the Company notified AMEX that it would not be able to meet its goals set forth in the prior Plan. In particular, the Company notified AMEX that it would not be in compliance with AMEX’s listing requirement of shareholders’ equity of $4,000,000 as of the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. The Company submitted a second revised plan (“Revised Plan”) to AMEX to request more time and to show that it could regain compliance by March 31, 2010. AMEX reviewed the Revised Plan and notified the Company on June 22, 2009 that the Company was still not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) due to the Company having shareholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000. AMEX also indicated that the Company was subject to Section 1002(b) of the AMEX Company Guide as a result of its depressed selling price per share, which the Company had not remedied by the June 12, 2009 deadline. The AMEX Staff additionally stated that in reaching its decision it considered that the Company has failed to meet minimum listing standards on repeated occasions. Consequently, AMEX stated that it had concluded that it is appropriate to initiate immediate delisting proceedings at this time. The Company has until June 29, 2009 to formally appeal AMEX’s decision, after which time the AMEX Staff’s determination will become final. At that time, the AMEX Staff will suspend trading in the Company’s securities and file an application with the SEC to strike the Company’s common stock from listing and registration on AMEX in accordance with Section 12 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. Our board of directors has decided at this time that it is not in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to expend the financial resources necessary to appeal the decision and continue to be listed on AMEX, particularly in light of the fact that the Company’s appeal would likely have little chance of success. Once the AMEX delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE WHICH MAY CAUSE INVESTORS TO LOSE ALL OR A PORTION OF THEIR INVESTMENT. From December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2009, our common stock has traded between a high of $1.60 and a low of $0.07. During this period, we incurred a net loss of $2.2 million in Fiscal 2009, a net loss of $1.9 million in fiscal 2006 and loss of $3.6 million in fiscal 2005. Our stock price may continue to be volatile based on similar or other adverse developments in our business. In addition, the stock market periodically experiences significant adverse price and volume fluctuations which may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Moving from AMEX to the OTCBB may also cause additional volatility which may cause our stock price to decline further. IF INVESTORS SHORT OUR SECURITIES, IT MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. During the past year, a number of investors have held a short position in our common stock. As of March 31, 2009, investors held a short position of approximately 26,000 shares of our common stock which represented 0.1% of our public float. The anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of our stock by some institutions or individuals who engage in short sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, if our stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to raise capital. IF OUR OUTSTANDING DERIVATIVE SECURITIES ARE EXERCISED OR CONVERTED, OUR EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS WILL SUFFER DILUTION. As of March 31, 2009, there were outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 1,133,215 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.11 to $9.00 per share, not all of which are immediately exercisable. The weighted average exercise price of the outstanding stock options is approximately $0.58 per share. As of March 31, 2008, there were outstanding and immediately exercisable options to purchase an aggregate of 1,029,296 shares of common stock. There were outstanding stock warrants to purchase 2,500,000 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $.315 per share, all of which are exercisable. 14 FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK HELD BY CURRENT SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS MAY DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE. As of June 15, 2009 there were 37,449,432 shares of our common stock outstanding. We have filed two registration statements registering an aggregate 3,794,250 of shares of our common stock (a registration statement on Form S-8 to register the sale of 1,844,250 shares underlying options granted under our 1994 Stock Option Plan and a registration statement on Form S-8 to register 1,950,000 shares of our common stock underlying options granted under our Year 2001 Stock Option Plan). An additional registration statement on Form S-1 was filed in October 2003, registering an aggregate of 2,795,465 shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could drop due to the sale of large number of shares of our common stock, such as the shares sold pursuant to the registration statements or under Rule 144, or the perception that these sales could occur. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECREASE IF WE ISSUE ADDITIONAL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended in January 2006, authorizes the issuance of 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of June 15, 2009, we had 37,449,432 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and an aggregate of 3,633,215 shares issuable under our outstanding options and warrants. As such, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 58,917,353 shares of common stock. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock, whether by us to new shareholders or the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of our outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our then existing shareholders. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE OUR COMPANY AND COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation include: authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock, limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders, and establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our internal controls over financial reporting have weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed, the disclosure of which may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting have identified weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. The material weaknesses were primarily due to the following: (i) lack of procedure to collect on past-due accounts receivable in our Macau subsidiary, which has resulted in some accounts remaining uncollected in excess of 90 days; and (ii) lack of formalized financial closing procedures which has hindered scheduled closing in a timely manner, resulting in the Company’s accounting department receiving supplemental information regarding certain items which require adjustment after the initial closing has taken place. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure of our management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SEVERAL FACTORS. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including: ◦ our ability to execute our business plan; ◦ operating results below expectations; ◦ loss of any strategic relationship; ◦ industry developments; ◦ economic and other external factors; and ◦ period-to-period fluctuations in its financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. WE HAVE NOT PAID CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE PAST AND DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE. ANY RETURN ON INVESTMENT MAY BE LIMITED TO THE VALUE OF OUR STOCK. We have never paid cash dividends on our stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay cash dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 