Item 1A. Risk Factors. AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF RISKS AND SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THESE RISK FACTORS, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN OUR PROSPECTUS, BEFORE YOU DECIDE WHETHER TO MAKE AN INVESTMENT. THE RISKS SET OUT BELOW ARE THE PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION, AS WELL AS THOSE FACTORS GENERALLY ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN A COMPANY WITH INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES, INVESTMENT POLICIES, CAPITAL STRUCTURE OR TRADING MARKETS SIMILAR TO THE CORPORATION'S. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Corporation is designed for long-term investors. Investors should not rely on the Corporation for their short-term financial needs. The value of the higher risk securities in which the Corporation invests will be affected by general economic conditions; the securities market; the markets for public offerings and corporate acquisitions; specific industry conditions; and the management of the individual portfolio companies. Additionally, the Corporation may not achieve its investment objectives. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence upon the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. As a BDC, the Corporation invests a large portion of its assets in restricted securities issued by small, private companies, some of which have operated at losses or have experienced substantial fluctuations in operating results. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies and the Corporation must rely on the diligence of its Investment Advisor to obtain the information necessary for the Corporation's decision to invest in these companies. In order to maintain its status as a BDC, the Corporation must have at least 70 percent of its total assets invested in these types of portfolio companies, as described in Sections 55(a)(1) through 55(a)(3) of the 1940 Act. Typically, such companies depend for their success on the management talents and efforts -5- of one person or a small group of persons, so that the death, disability or resignation of such person or persons could have a materially adverse impact on them. Moreover, smaller companies frequently have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger companies and, therefore, may be more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Such companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. Because these companies will generally have highly leveraged capital structures, reduced cash flow resulting from an adverse business development, shifts in customer preferences, or an economic downturn or the inability to complete a public offering or other financing may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, the Corporation's investment in them. Investment in such companies therefore involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and, accordingly, should be considered highly speculative. No assurance can be given that some of the Corporation's investments will not result in substantial or complete losses. The long-term character of our portfolio investments may negatively impact their current return and capital gains. The Corporation's investments yield a current return for most of their lives, but generally only produce a capital gain, if any, from an accompanying equity feature after five to eight years. Both the current yield and a capital gain must be achieved on most investments in order to meet the Corporation's investment goals. There can be no assurance that either a current return or capital gain will actually be achieved on the Corporation's investments. Because our portfolio investments are typically privately-issued, there is no market for the securities, and thus their value is decreased. Most of the investments of the Corporation consist of securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. They are usually subject to restrictions on resale and are generally illiquid. Usually there is no established trading market for such securities into which they could be sold. In addition, most of the securities are not eligible for sale to the public without registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), which would involve delay and expense. Restricted securities generally sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on sale. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we actually render significant managerial assistance. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. The Corporation's portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying the senior security holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any -6- distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Closed-end investment companies' shares usually trade below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies like the Corporation frequently trade at a discount from net asset value and the Corporation's shares have historically traded at a discount from net asset value. At September 30, 2006, the Corporation's shares traded at a 62% discount to their net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that the Corporation's per share net asset value will decline. In addition, due to the following reasons, the Corporation is not only different from other closed-end funds, is a greater risk than similar venture capital closed-end funds. o First, many closed-end funds generally are structured to produce annual dividends to shareholders. The Corporation, however, does not presently pay dividends but, rather, retains all income after taxes and expenses to reduce debt or fund additional investments and thus create capital appreciation. The return to holders of the Corporation's Common Stock is thus anticipated to be long-term and capital in nature. The Corporation's Board of Directors (the "Board") will, however, consider payment of dividends in the future and reserves the right to do so without shareholder approval. o Second, due to several factors, including the small size of the Corporation relative to fixed expenses, and the fact that much of the income of the Corporation arises through capital gains rather than ordinary income, on a consolidated basis, the Corporation has lost money (that is, had net investment expense, rather than new investment income) in each of the last five years. Many similar funds are structured to earn sufficient current income to achieve operating income (investment income in excess of operating expenses) each year. Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, substantially all of the Corporation's portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board on a quarterly basis, and, as a result, there is uncertainty regarding the value of the Corporation's portfolio investments. At September 30, 2006, approximately 83% of the Corporation's total assets represented investments recorded at fair value. Since there is typically no readily ascertainable market value for the investments in the Corporation's portfolio, our Board determines in good faith the fair value of these investments pursuant to a valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied valuation process for the types of investments the Corporation makes. Unlike banks, the Corporation is not permitted to provide a general reserve for anticipated loan losses; the Corporation is instead required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record unrealized depreciation for an investment that the Corporation believes has lost value, including where collection of a debt security or realization of an equity security is doubtful. Conversely, the Corporation records unrealized appreciation if the Corporation has an indication that the underlying portfolio company has appreciated in value and, therefore, our security has also appreciated in value, where appropriate. Without a readily ascertainable market value and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, fair value of our investments determined in good faith by the Board may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market existed for the investments, and the differences could be material. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect the Board's determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as "Net change in unrealized depreciation/appreciation on investments." -7- Risk under SBA Agreement. On January 4, 2005, the Corporation's subsidiary, MorAmerica, and three other SBICs reached a settlement agreement regarding arbitration proceedings. The settlement required the SBICs to pay a monetary award to the other party to the proceedings and also required approval by the SBA. In approving the settlement, the SBA required the SBICs to agree, jointly and severally, to be liable to SBA for up to one-half of the SBA's potential losses on SBA debentures issued by the SBICs, up to a maximum payment of $7.5 million. The SBA will incur losses under this agreement only following full and final liquidation of any of these SBICs whose SBA debentures are not repaid in full. Should MorAmerica ever be required to make a payment under this agreement, it will have a claim against the other three SBICs. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities and individuals compete for the kinds of investments made by the Corporation. Many of these entities and individuals have greater financial resources than the resources of the Corporation. As a result of this competition, the Corporation may, from time to time, be precluded from entering into attractive transactions on terms considered by the Investment Adviser to be prudent in light of the risks to be assumed. We may not be able to elect pass-through tax treatment in the future as planned. Currently, the Corporation is a taxable entity (a "C corporation") in order to utilize net operating loss carryforwards generated from a predecessor company as well as the Corporation's operating losses. In the future the Corporation may elect to qualify for pass-through tax treatment contained in Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"). Subchapter M treatment essentially means that certain income is taxed at the shareholder level only with no tax at the corporate level, although the Corporation may be subject to a corporate level tax on certain built-in gains in existence at the time the Corporation would first become subject to Subchapter M. It is possible that, for a number of reasons, the Corporation may be unable to meet Subchapter M requirements, or that it may also cease to qualify for pass-through treatment, or be subject to a four percent excise tax, if it fails to make certain distributions. Under the 1940 Act, the Corporation is not permitted to make distributions to shareholders unless it meets certain asset coverage requirements with respect to money borrowed and senior securities issued. Non-availability of pass-through tax treatment may potentially have a materially adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in the Corporation's shares, once net operating loss carryforwards are no longer available and the Subchapter M election has become advantageous. We are dependent upon the Investment Advisor's key personnel for our future success. The Corporation is wholly dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of its investments on the diligence and skill of its officers and of its Investment Advisor, subject to supervision by the Board. However, the advisory agreement with InvestAmerica is short-term in nature and is subject to cancellation on sixty days' notice. InvestAmerica's management believes that performance is attributable largely to the abilities and experiences of certain key individuals. The loss to InvestAmerica of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's performance. Potential significant conflicts of interest may impact our investment returns. All of our officers also serve in similar capacities with InvestAmerica, and with its affiliates, which include investment advisors to other investment funds. Accordingly, our officers may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of the Corporation or its stockholders or that may require them to devote time to services for such other entities, which could interfere with the time available to provide services to the Corporation. Nonetheless, InvestAmerica is of the opinion that the efforts of its officers relative to the Corporation will be synergistic with and beneficial to the affairs of both the Corporation and InvestAmerica. As a result of regulatory restrictions, we are not permitted to invest in any portfolio company in which the Investment Advisor or any affiliate currently has an investment. However, under the terms of an exemptive order granted by the SEC, under certain specified circumstances, the Corporation may invest (and make follow on -8- investments) in portfolio companies at the same time and on the same terms as InvestAmerica's affiliates. All such investments are reviewed by the Corporation's independent directors to assure conformity to the exemptive order. If we issue senior securities, including debt, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. The Corporation may borrow funds from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies or other lenders up to the limit permitted by the 1940 Act. Currently, through MorAmerica, the Corporation has borrowed funds through the SBIC programs established by the SBA. Such borrowings cause the Corporation to be leveraged. When such borrowings are incurred, the lenders of these funds will have fixed dollar claims on the Corporation's assets superior to the claims of the Corporation's shareholders. Decreases in the value of the investments below their value at the time of acquisition would cause the Corporation's net asset value to decline more sharply than it would if the funds had not been borrowed. Any decrease in the rate of income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would had the funds not been borrowed and invested. Leverage is thus generally considered a speculative investment technique. Conversely, however, the ability of the Corporation to achieve its investment objectives may depend in part on its ability to acquire leverage on favorable terms by borrowing through the SBA, banks or insurance companies and there can be no assurance that such leverage can in fact be acquired. In the event MorAmerica is able to and desires to resume SBIC borrowings, changes in legislation applicable to or Congressional funding for the SBA, or changes in the SBA regulations, may have an adverse impact on the future ability of either the Corporation or MorAmerica to acquire such leverage. The Corporation, on a consolidated basis through its wholly-owned subsidiary MorAmerica, had outstanding $10,790,000 in subordinated debentures issued to various parties and guaranteed by the SBA on September 30, 2006. The following describes the maturities and interest rates of these debentures: Due Year Ending September 30 Principal Amount Fixed Interest Rate 2011 $5,835,000 6.89% 2012 $4,955,000 6.91% The Corporation is currently using proceeds of portfolio liquidity events to reduce its SBA debt and does not currently anticipate drawing new SBA leverage. To protect or maintain our existing portfolio investments, we may need to increase our investments in existing portfolio companies. Following its initial investment, the Corporation may make additional debt and equity investments in portfolio companies ("follow-on investments") in order to increase its investment in a successful portfolio company, to exercise securities that were acquired in the original financing, to preserve the Corporation's proportionate ownership when a subsequent financing is planned or to protect the Corporation's initial investment when such portfolio company's performance does not meet expectations. The failure or inability to make such follow-on investments may, in certain circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and the Corporation's initial investment in that company. Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a material impact on us or our operations. We are regulated by the SEC and our subsidiary, MorAmerica, is regulated by the SBA. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations that govern BDCs, regulated investment companies and SBICs may significantly affect our business. Any change in the law or regulations that govern our business could have a material impact on us or our operations. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are subject to change, which may have a material effect on our operations. -9- Results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate and, therefore, you should not rely on current or historical period results to be indicative of our performance in future reporting periods. Factors that could cause operating results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to, variations in the investment origination volume and fee income earned, variation in timing of prepayments, variations in and the timing of the recognition of net realized gains or losses and changes in unrealized appreciation or depreciation, the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. Our Common Stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the Common Stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay for your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: * price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; * significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other financial services companies; * changes in laws or regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to BDCs or regulated investment companies; * actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; * risks associated with possible disruption in our operations due to terrorism; * general economic conditions and trends; * loss of a major funding source; * departures of key personnel; or * other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and SEC filings. 