Item 1A. Risk Factors. AN INVESTMENT IN MACC’S COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF RISKS AND SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING. THE RISKS SET OUT BELOW ARE THE PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN MACC KNOWN TO US, AS WELL AS THOSE FACTORS GENERALLY ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN A COMPANY WITH INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES, INVESTMENT POLICIES, CAPITAL STRUCTURE OR TRADING MARKETS SIMILAR TO MACC'S. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. MACC is designed for long-term investors. Investors should not rely on MACC for their short-term financial needs. The value of the higher risk securities in which MACC invests will be affected by general economic conditions; the securities market; the markets for public offerings and corporate acquisitions; specific industry conditions; and the management of the individual portfolio companies. Additionally, MACC may not achieve its investment objectives. The Nasdaq Stock Market may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our securities. On September 15, 2009, we received a notice (the “Notice”) from the staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) indicating that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the “Rule”) because our common stock did not maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the preceding 30 consecutive business days. Under the Notice and Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) we are provided with a 180 calendar day grace period, or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance. If, at anytime before March 15, 2010, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we complied with the Notice and the Rule. In the event we have not regained compliance by the end of this grace period we will receive a written notification that our securities are subject to delisting, a determination we can choose to appeal to Nasdaq’s Hearing Panel. We may be eligible for an additional grace period if we meet the initial listing standards of the Nasdaq, with the exception of bid price. If we meet the initial listing criteria, the staff of Nasdaq will notify us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar day compliance period. No assurances can be given that we will be able to satisfy the above described deficiency and that our common stock will not be delisted. Additionally, no assurances can be given that we will qualify for any additional grace periods offered by Nasdaq. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, the trading market for our common stock would likely be adversely affected, as price quotations may not be as readily obtainable, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. -2- An investment strategy focused primarily on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence upon the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. As a BDC, MACC invests a large portion of its assets in restricted securities issued by small, private companies, some of which have operated at losses or have experienced substantial fluctuations in operating results. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies and MACC must rely on the diligence of its Adviser and Subadviser to obtain the information necessary for its decision to invest in these companies. In order to maintain its status as a BDC, MACC must have at least 70% of its total assets invested in Qualified Assets. Typically, for their success, such companies depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of persons, so that the death, disability or resignation of such person or persons could have a materially adverse impact on them. Moreover, smaller companies frequently have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger companies and, therefore, may be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Such companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. Because these companies will generally have highly leveraged capital structures, reduced cash flow resulting from an adverse business development, shifts in customer preferences, or an economic downturn or the inability to complete a public offering or other financing may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, MACC’s investment in them. Investment in such companies therefore involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and, accordingly, should be considered highly speculative. No assurance can be given that some of MACC’s investments will not result in substantial or complete losses. Because our investments are and will continue to typically be privately-issued, they will have limited liquidity, and thus their value is decreased. All of our Existing Portfolio investments consist of, and any New Portfolio investments will generally consist of, securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. They are usually subject to restrictions on resale and are generally illiquid. Usually there is no established trading market for such securities into which they could be sold. In addition, most of the securities are not eligible for sale to the public without registration under the 1933 Act, which would involve delay and expense. Restricted securities generally sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on sale. As a BDC, we are subject to limitations on our ability to engage in certain transactions with affiliates. As a result of our election to be regulated as a BDC, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors or the SEC. The 1940 Act defines “affiliates” broadly to include (i) any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities, (ii) any person of which we own 5% or more of their outstanding securities, (iii) any person who directly or indirectly controls us, (iv) our officers, directors and employees, and (v) our Adviser and Subadviser, among others, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. If our investments are deemed not to be Qualifying Assets, we could lose our status as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. As a result of our election to be regulated as a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than Qualifying Assets unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are Qualifying Assets. Qualifying Assets include “eligible portfolio companies.” “Eligible portfolio companies” are generally companies which are organized in the United States, are not investment companies, and which either: (i) do not have securities for which a broker may extend margin credit, (ii) are controlled by a BDC or a group including a BDC, (iii) are solvent and have assets under $4 million and capital and surplus of at least $2 million, or (iv) (A) do not have a class of securities -3- listed on a national securities exchange, or (B) do have a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange, but have a market capitalization below $250,000,000. If, for example, we acquire debt or equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make such an investment, or if we acquire securities from an issuer which otherwise meets the definition of an eligible portfolio company but we purchase the securities in a public offering, these acquired assets cannot be treated as Qualifying Assets. The failure of an investment to meet the definition of a Qualifying Asset could preclude us from otherwise taking advantage of an investment opportunity we find attractive. In addition, our failure to meet the BDC Qualifying Asset requirements could result in the loss of BDC status, which would significantly and adversely affect our business plan by, among other things, requiring us to register as a closed-end investment company. Our use of leverage may create conflicts of interest and we are exposed to the risks associated with leverage. In addition to our outstanding loans discussed below, we may borrow additional money to increase our ability to make investments, though we do not anticipate issuing preferred stock in the next twelve months. Lenders from whom we may borrow money or holders of our debt (or preferred, if issued) securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we may grant a security interest in our assets in connection with our debt. Current and potential lenders will not, however, hold any veto or other power to change any of our policies. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders or note holders (in addition to holders of preferred stock if we issued such stock) would receive proceeds before our stockholders. Though we presently have not plans to do so, if we incur additional debt, the costs associated with such leverage, including commitment fees and interest (in the case of debt) or issuance and dividend costs (in the case of preferred stock), would be borne entirely by holders of our common stock. Debt, also known as leverage, magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. The increased potential of gain through the use of leverage also creates a conflict of interest in that it can encourage our Adviser to increase our assets through leverage in an effort to earn management or incentive fees under the Investment Advisory Agreement between with EAM, effective April 29, 2008 (the “Advisory Agreement”), while our common stockholders would incur the costs of utilizing such leverage and bear the risks associated with the debt. Even though the Company, and therefore its common stockholders, would bear the risks and expenses of leverage, the incentive fees payable to the Adviser will not be directly reduced by any interest expense associated with such leverage. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. If an asset purchased with leverage declines in value, the fact that we incurred leverage to finance the purchase of such asset will compound the decrease in our net assets attributable to our common stock and could eliminate our equity in such investment. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and the performance of our portfolio companies and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions, competitive pressures and risks of default. MACC had a principal of $4,618,659 on its term loan (the “Term Loan”) with Cedar Rapids Bank & Trust (“CRB&T”), on September 30, 2009. The Term Loan has a stated maturity date of March 31, 2010 and is subject to a variable interest rate based on an independent index. The current interest rate applicable to the Term loan is 6.0%. We have lost money which impacts our ability to operate. Due to a number of factors, MACC’s assets have declined in the last several years, along with its share price. These results have negatively impacted our ability to raise capital as part of our strategy to increase assets for the New Portfolio in an effort to decrease our per-share expenses. They have also hindered our ability to undertake leverage to increase assets and potential returns. Furthermore, our past performance has limited our liquidity and has caused our financial condition to deteriorate. There can be no assurance that our future performance will improve. -4- Our quarterly results may fluctuate. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt investments or the dividend rates on the equity investments we make, the default rates on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies. Our Existing Portfolio consists of a limited number of portfolio companies, and if we raise assets, our New Portfolio may be invested in a small number of issuers. One or two of our portfolio companies may constitute a significant percentage of our total portfolio, especially in the months following any equity offering we commence. An inherent risk associated with such investment concentration is that we may be adversely affected if one or two of our investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Financial difficulty on the part of any single portfolio company will expose us to a greater risk of loss than would be the case if we were a more “diversified” company holding numerous investments. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control that portfolio company. When we make minority equity investments or invest in debt, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we may disagree, and that the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investments. Changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretations of laws or regulations could significantly affect our operations and cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including (i) with respect to our Existing Portfolio, loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices; and (ii) with respect to our New Portfolio, purchasing and selling securities issued by small and micro-cap public and private companies. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, or fail to obtain licenses that may become necessary for the conduct of our business, we may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. While we have not commenced investing with the New Portfolio and the Existing Portfolio is static, we compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies to make the types of investments that we make. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, allowing them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a result of our election to be regulated as a BDC. Closed-end investment companies’ shares usually trade below net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies like MACC frequently trade at a discount from net asset value and MACC’s shares have historically traded at a discount from net asset value. At September 30, 2009, MACC’s shares -5- traded at a 75% discount to their net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our per share net asset value will decline. In addition, due to the following reasons, MACC is not only different from other closed-end funds, but is at greater risk than similar venture capital closed-end funds. · First, many closed-end funds generally are structured to produce annual dividends to shareholders. MACC, however, has not paid dividends but, rather, retained all income after taxes and expenses to reduce debt or fund additional investments and thus create capital appreciation. The return to holders of MACC’s common stock is thus anticipated to be long-term and capital in nature. MACC’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) will, however, consider payment of dividends in the future and reserves the right to do so without shareholder approval. · Second, due to several factors, including the small size of MACC relative to fixed expenses, and the fact that much of the income of MACC arises through capital gains rather than ordinary income, MACC has lost money (that is, had net investment expense, rather than new investment income) in each of the last seven years. Many similar funds are structured to earn sufficient current income to achieve operating income (investment income in excess of operating expenses) each year. We may not be able to elect pass-through tax treatment in the future. Currently, MACC is a taxable entity (a “C corporation”) in order to utilize net operating loss carryforwards generated from a predecessor company as well as its operating losses. In the future, MACC may elect to qualify for pass-through tax treatment contained in Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Code”). Subchapter M treatment essentially means that certain income is taxed at the shareholder level only with no tax at the corporate level, although MACC may be subject to a corporate level tax on certain built-in gains in existence at the time MACC would first become subject to Subchapter M. It is possible that, for a number of reasons, MACC may be unable to meet Subchapter M requirements, or that it may also cease to qualify for pass-through treatment, or be subject to a four percent excise tax, if it fails to make certain distributions. Under the 1940 Act, MACC is not permitted to make distributions to shareholders unless it meets certain asset coverage requirements with respect to money borrowed and any senior securities issued. Non-availability of pass-through tax treatment may potentially have a materially adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in MACC’s shares, once net operating loss carryforwards are no longer available and the Subchapter M election has become advantageous. We are dependent upon our Adviser’s and Subadviser’s key personnel for our future success. We depend on the diligence, expertise and business relationships of our Adviser and Subadviser. If we commence investing in the New Portfolio, the Adviser will evaluate, negotiate, structure, monitor, and close our investments, subject to supervision by the Board. Our advisory agreements with EAM and InvestAmerica are short-term in nature and subject to cancellation on sixty days’ notice. Our future success will depend on the continued service of certain key individuals of the Adviser and Subadviser. The departure of one or more of these key individuals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives and on the value of our common stock. We will rely on certain employees of the Adviser and Subadviser, who may devote significant amounts of their time to their respective activities that are not related to MACC. To the extent those employees of the Adviser and Subadviser who are not committed exclusively to us are unable to, or do not, devote sufficient amounts of their time and energy to our affairs, our performance may suffer. Potential significant conflicts of interest may impact our investment returns. All of our officers also serve in similar capacities with EAM, which serves as an investment adviser to other accounts, and in the future may serve as investment adviser to other investment funds. In that case, our officers may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of MACC or its stockholders or that may require them to devote time to services for such other entities, which could interfere with the time available to provide services to MACC. Nonetheless, EAM is of the opinion that any such efforts of its officers relative to MACC would be synergistic with and beneficial to the affairs of both MACC and EAM. InvestAmerica and its affiliates also serve as investment advisers to other funds. It is possible that, through the course of identifying and structuring potential New Portfolio investments, EAM may be presented with investment opportunities which could benefit certain investors in the portfolio company to the detriment of our stockholders. For example, if we overvalue a -6- portfolio company investment, our investment could benefit a portfolio company investor by providing capital to the company, and thus its investors, at below market rates. While EAM intends to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner (i.e., pro-rata among its accounts) consistent with our investment objective and strategies, and in accordance with its written allocation procedures so that we will not be disadvantaged in relation to any other client, EAM’s services under the Advisory Agreement are not exclusive. Both EAM and InvestAmerica are free to furnish the same or similar services to other entities, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with us, provided they notify us prior to agreeing to serve as investment adviser to another entity. As a result of regulatory restrictions, we are not permitted to invest in any portfolio company in which the Adviser, the Subadviser or any of their respective affiliates currently has an investment. However, under the terms of an exemptive order granted by the SEC, under certain specified circumstances, we may invest (and make follow on investments) in portfolio companies at the same time and on the same terms as InvestAmerica’s affiliates. All such investments will be reviewed by our independent directors to assure conformity to the exemptive order. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to EAM and InvestAmerica. As a result, holders of our common stock invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments in our portfolio companies. Because of this arrangement, there may be times when the management teams of either EAM or InvestAmerica have interests which differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. For example, if we borrow money or issue debt instruments and thereby increase our assets, which in turn increases the management fee payable to our Adviser, we simultaneously increase our expenses to service such debt and thereby reduce our stockholders’ return on their investment in MACC. Further, the use of leverage increases the likelihood of gain (or loss) which amounts would be subject to the incentive fee we pay to our Adviser. The incentive fee payable to our Adviser may create conflicting incentives. Our Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net realized capital gains on our investments. As a result, our Adviser may have an incentive to pursue investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income-producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative or long term securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns or longer return cycles. Under the Advisory Agreement with EAM, the incentive fee is calculated on a “period to period” basis, meaning that changes in the value of portfolio investments in subsequent periods do not retroactively affect incentive fee calculations from prior periods. Further, the Advisory Agreement empowers EAM with the discretion to determine when MACC should dispose of portfolio investments. This formula and authority granted EAM presents a conflict of interest in that it could prompt EAM to concentrate realized gains or losses in one performance measuring period in an effort to maximize that period’s gain (or another period’s loss), and therefore maximize the incentive fee payment for such period, when MACC would be able to achieve greater gains if they were realized in different periods. In addition to duties imposed on EAM by the 1940 Act and other laws, under the terms of the Advisory Agreement, the Board of Directors has the responsibility to monitor the value of MACC’s portfolio consistent with MACC’s Valuation Procedures. These responsibilities include the appropriateness of and the timing of recognizing unrealized depreciation, reversals of unrealized depreciation, and capital losses and gains, which serves to mitigate the inherent conflict associated with the Adviser’s interest in enhancing the amount of net capital gains with respect to the calculation of the incentive fee. Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay for your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; ● significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other financial services companies; -7- ● changes in laws or regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to BDCs or regulated investment companies; ● actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; ● risks associated with possible disruption in our operations due to terrorism; ● general economic conditions and trends; ● loss of a major funding source; ● departures of key personnel; or ● other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and SEC filings. Risks Related to the Existing Portfolio Our Existing Portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board. As a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, substantially all of our Existing Portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board on a quarterly basis, and, as a result, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments. At September 30, 2009, approximately 94% of our total assets represented investments recorded at fair value. Since there will typically be no readily ascertainable market value for the investments in our Existing Portfolio, our Board will determine in good faith the fair value of our investments pursuant to our valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied valuation process for the types of investments we hold. Unlike banks, we are not permitted to provide a general reserve for anticipated loan losses; we are instead required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual investment and record unrealized depreciation for an investment that we believe has lost value, including where collection of a debt security or realization of an equity security is doubtful. Conversely, we record unrealized appreciation if we have an indication that the underlying portfolio company has appreciated in value and, therefore, our security has also appreciated in value, where appropriate. Without a readily ascertainable market value and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, fair value of our Existing Portfolio investments determined in good faith by the Board may differ significantly from the values that would have been used by another party or had a ready market existed for the Existing Portfolio investments, and the differences could be material. We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect the Board’s determination of the fair value of each Existing Portfolio investment. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as “Net change in unrealized depreciation/appreciation on investments.” An investment strategy that focuses on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence upon the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel, a greater vulnerability to economic downturns and a greater inability to liquidate our investments in an advantageous manner. As a BDC, we have invested most of our assets in restricted securities issued by small, private companies, some of which have operated at losses or have experienced substantial fluctuations in operating results. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies and we must rely on the diligence of our Investment Adviser and Subadviser to obtain the information necessary to invest in these companies. If our Adviser and Subadviser are unable to obtain all material information about these companies, including with respect to operational, regulatory, environmental, litigation and managerial risks, our Adviser and Subadviser may not make a fully-informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of the money invested in these companies. In addition, our Adviser and Subadviser may inappropriately value the prospects of an investment, causing us to overpay for such investment and fail to receive an expected or projected return on its investment. Typically, for their success, such companies depend on the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of persons, so that the death, disability or resignation of such person or persons could have a materially adverse impact on them. Moreover, smaller companies frequently have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger companies and, therefore, may be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Such companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies -8- with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. Because these companies will generally have highly leveraged capital structures, reduced cash flow resulting from an adverse business development, shifts in customer preferences, or an economic downturn or the inability to complete a public offering or other financing may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in them. Investment in such companies therefore involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and, accordingly, should be considered highly speculative. No assurance can be given that some of our investments will not result in substantial or complete losses. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we previously have recorded our investments. We also may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or one of our affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. The long-term character of our Existing Portfolio investments may negatively impact their current return and capital gains. Our Existing Portfolio investments yield a current return for most of their lives, but generally only produce a capital gain, if any, from an accompanying equity feature (which typically consists of a warrant for the purchase of common equity securities) after five to eight years. Both the current yield and a capital gain must be achieved on most investments in order to meet our investment goals. There can be no assurance that either a current return or capital gain will actually be achieved on our investments. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Portfolio companies in which we invest usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, debt that ranks senior to, or equally with, our investments, including debt investments. As a result, payments on such securities may have to be made before we receive any payments on our investments. For example, these debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to our investments. These debt instruments will usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. In the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying its senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use to repay its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our Existing Portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we actually render significant managerial assistance. We expect our debt investments will generally be unsecured and even if we make a secured loan, if the assets securing a loan we make decrease in value, we may not have sufficient collateral to cover losses. We believe our Existing Portfolio companies generally will be able to repay our debt investments from their available capital, from future capital-raising transactions or from cash flow from operations. Generally, our debt investments in Existing Portfolio companies that we make will are unsecured. However, when we take a security -9- interest in the available assets of a portfolio company, there is a risk that the collateral securing our investment may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, a deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the collateral for the investment. Moreover, we may not have a first lien position on the collateral. Consequently, the fact that investment is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the investment’s terms or that we will be able to collect on the investment should we be forced to enforce our remedies. In addition, a portion of the assets securing our investment may be in the form of intellectual property, if any, inventory and equipment and, to a lesser extent, cash and accounts receivable. Intellectual property, if any, that is securing our investment could lose value if, among other things, the company’s rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the company’s license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires. Inventory may not be adequate to secure our investment if our valuation of the inventory at the time we made the loan was not accurate or if there is a reduction in the demand for the inventory. Similarly, any equipment securing our loan may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value or if the company fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure. The lack of liquidity in our Existing Portfolio investments may adversely affect our business, and if we need to sell any of our investments, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price. As a result, we may suffer losses. The Existing Portfolio generally consists of investments in debt securities with terms of two to ten years, which we generally hold until maturity, and we do not expect that our related holdings of equity securities in the Existing Portfolio will provide us with liquidity opportunities in the near-term. We expect that a majority of the New Portfolio will consist of companies whose securities are not publicly-traded, and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. However, to maintain our election to be regulated as a BDC, we may have to dispose of investments if we do not satisfy one or more of the applicable criteria under the 1940 Act. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of a majority of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. Generally, when market interest rates rise, the values of debt securities decline, and vice versa. During periods of declining interest rates, the issuer of a security may exercise its option to prepay principal earlier than scheduled, forcing us to reinvest in lower yielding securities. This is known as call or prepayment risk. Lower grade securities frequently have call features that allow the issuer to repurchase the security prior to its stated maturity. An issuer may redeem a lower grade obligation if the issuer can refinance the debt at a lower cost due to declining interest rates or an improvement in the credit standing of the issuer. To protect or maintain our portfolio investments, we may need to increase our investments in portfolio companies. Following our initial investment, we may make additional debt and equity investments in portfolio companies (“follow-on investments”) to increase our investment in a successful portfolio company, to exercise securities that were acquired in the original financing, to preserve our proportionate ownership when a subsequent financing is planned or to protect our initial investment when such portfolio company’s performance does not meet expectations. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Additionally, we are subject to limitations relating to our BDC status which may limit our ability to make additional investments in portfolio companies. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result -10- in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation, or may reduce the expected yield on the investment. Risks Related to the New Portfolio As discussed above, we have engaged EAM to manage our New Portfolio, however we have not raised new assets for the New Portfolio. When we establish the New Portfolio we will be exposed to market risks associated with investments in equity securities. Upon implementation of our new investment strategy, we will ordinarily have substantial exposure to common stocks and other equity securities in pursuing our investment objective and policies. The market price of equity securities, including common and preferred stocks, may go up or down, sometimes rapidly or unpredictably. Equity securities may decline in value due to factors affecting equity securities markets generally, particular industries represented in those markets or the issuer itself, including the historical and prospective earnings of the issuer and the value of its assets. The values of equity securities may decline due to general market conditions which are not specifically related to a particular company, such as real or perceived adverse economic conditions, changes in the general outlook for corporate earnings, changes in interest or currency rates or adverse investor sentiment generally. They may also decline due to factors which affect a particular industry or industries, such as labor shortages or increased production costs and competitive conditions within an industry. Equity securities, and particularly common stocks, generally have greater price volatility than bonds and other debt securities. Holders of equity securities will have rights which are subordinate to portfolio companies’ other investors or debt holders. The New Portfolio’s focus on equity securities will also expose us to risks as holders of common stock. For example, the interests of common stockholders are subordinated to the interests of creditors or holders of debt. Under most borrowing arrangements, lenders will have superior claims to a portfolio company’s assets, and in the case of liquidation, creditors may receive first priority in the distribution of a portfolio company’s assets. Furthermore, the interests of holders of common stock are often subordinated to the holders of any preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have superior voting rights over holders of common stock, and they often have superior rights in the case of portfolio company liquidation. Our transition to a much higher percentage of equity investments will expose us to these and other risks which we previously were only minimally exposed to. We will be particularly sensitive to the risks associated with equity investments in small-cap and micro-cap companies. As described above, our New Portfolio equity investments will be focused on common stocks of small-cap and micro-cap companies. We will therefore be particularly sensitive to the risks associated with small companies. The general risks associated with equity securities are particularly pronounced for securities issued by companies with small market capitalizations. Micro-cap and other small capitalization companies may offer greater opportunities for capital appreciation than larger companies, but may also involve certain special risks. They are more likely than larger companies to have limited product lines, markets or financial resources, or to depend on a small, inexperienced management group. Securities of smaller companies may trade less frequently and in lesser volume than more widely held securities and their values may fluctuate more sharply than other securities. They may also trade in the over-the-counter market or on a regional exchange, or may otherwise have limited liquidity. These securities may therefore be more vulnerable to adverse developments than securities of larger companies, and we may have difficulty establishing or closing out our securities positions in smaller companies at prevailing market prices. Also, there may be less publicly-available information about smaller companies or less market interest in their securities as compared to larger companies, and it may take longer for the prices of the securities to reflect the full value of the issuers’ earnings potential or assets. We may engage in short selling, which creates the risk of a theoretically unlimited loss. If we commence the New Portfolio strategy, we may engage in short selling. Short selling involves selling securities which may or may not be owned and borrowing the same securities for delivery to the purchaser, with an -11- obligation to replace the borrowed securities at a later date. Short selling allows the investor to profit from declines in securities. A short sale creates the risk of a theoretically unlimited loss, in that the price of the underlying security could theoretically increase without limit, thus increasing the cost of buying those securities to cover the short position. There can be no assurance that the security necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase. Purchasing securities to close out the short position can itself cause the price of the securities to rise further, thereby exacerbating the loss. Small- and micro-cap companies may rely on inexperienced management. Small- and micro-cap companies may be young companies with inexperienced management. The lack of an experienced management team may prevent such companies from meeting its goals, which may reduce the expected yield on our investment. Small and micro-cap companies may rely on a small number of key employees, and if such employees leave the company, the company’s performance may suffer. The success of small- and micro-cap companies may depend on a small number of key employees. Such companies’ ability to retain its key employees will be important to successful operation of such companies. The unexpected loss of services of key employees, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, may have an adverse effect on a companies business and financial results, which could devalue our investment. Small- and micro-cap companies may operate in areas where rapid technology developments may render their business obsolete. New technologies or improvements to old technologies may render the product lines of small- and micro-cap companies obsolete. Because such companies may not have diverse product lines, any technological development that renders a product line obsolete may resulting a company having no product to market, which will severely devalue such company’s securities. Such technological developments may prevent us from meeting our expected return on investment and may result in a complete loss of our investment. Small- and micro-cap companies may have relatively limited product lines, markets or financial resources. Small- and micro-cap companies may have relatively limited product lines, markets and/or financial resources. Therefore, such companies may be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions. Any action by competitors or downturn in market conditions may directly impact a company’s business and financial results. Such companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and service capabilities. Such a decline in performance, may result in us not meeting our expected return on investment, and may result in a complete loss of investment. The securities of small- and micro-cap companies may be more volatile than other securities. Historically, small- and micro-cap companies have been more volatile in price than larger capitalized companies. Among the reasons for the greater price volatility of these securities are the lower degree of liquidity in the markets for such stocks, and the potentially greater sensitivity of such small- and micro-cap companies to changes in or failure of management and in many other changes in competitive, business, industry and economic conditions, including risks associated with limited product lines, markets, management depth, or financial resources. Such price volatility may result in us not meeting our expected return on investment. Small and micro-cap companies may be unable to obtain the financing required to fund necessary growth. Small- and micro- cap companies may require additional financing before such company can develop a product line to a point of profitability. Companies requiring additional capital may be unable to obtain such capital and as a result may not achieve profitability, which may result in us not meeting our expected return on investment and may result in a complete loss of investment. There is limited liquidity in small and micro-cap companies. -12- The liquidity of securities in small- and micro-cap companies may be more limited than that of other companies. The lack of liquidity may result in us not being able to dispose of the securities when we desire, which may result in us not being able to achieve our expected return on investment and may result in a complete loss of investment. The value of securities in small- and micro-cap companies may not follow the value of larger companies or general economic conditions. The value of securities in small- and micro-cap companies may not follow the value of larger companies or general economic conditions for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, such companies having limited product lines available, key employees misguiding the company or the company may not be able to obtain needed financing. This may result in a small- or micro-cap company’s performance suffering when the overall stock market is providing favorable returns or when overall economic conditions are favorable. As a result, our investment may not achieve our expected return on value and we may suffer a complete loss of investment during favorable economic conditions. -13- Item 