ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks and Uncertainties This Report contains “forward-looking statements” that reflect our current views with respect to future events. All statements in this Report other than those that are simply statements of historical facts are generally forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current assumptions and analysis, which we believe to be reasonable, but are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. All forward-looking statements in this Report are made only as of the date of this Report, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements, even though circumstances may change in the future. 21 Table of Contents Among the significant risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements or could otherwise adversely affect our business or financial condition are those described below. We have a high level of indebtedness and are subject to restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness and preferred stock. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2006 we had total indebtedness of $1.1 billion, all of which is senior secured indebtedness, and redeemable preferred stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $1.5 billion (approximately $1.3 billion of which is exchangeable, under certain circumstances, into senior subordinated indebtedness). We may incur limited amounts of additional indebtedness to finance capital expenditures and for certain other corporate purposes. Our ability to incur indebtedness is subject to restrictions contained in the terms of the indentures governing our senior notes and the term loan facility governing our first priority term loans, and is subject to restrictions in the terms of our outstanding preferred stock. The level of our indebtedness and redeemable preferred stock has important consequences to us, including that our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service and will not be available for other purposes. Many of our competitors currently operate on a less leveraged basis and may have significantly greater operating and financing flexibility than us. The indentures, the term loan facility and the terms of our preferred stock contain covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, make investments, pay dividends or make other restricted payments, consummate asset sales, consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, invest in new programming, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. There is no assurance that any of these strategies could be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. We have a history of significant operating losses and negative cash flow and we may not become profitable in the future. We have incurred losses from continuing operations in each fiscal year since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our earnings were insufficient to cover our combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividend requirements by approximately $236.0 million, $289.7 million and $220.7 million, respectively. We expect to continue to experience net losses in the foreseeable future, principally due to interest charges on our outstanding debt and dividends on our outstanding preferred stock. Our future net losses could be greater than those we have experienced in the past. Our cash flow from operations has been insufficient to cover our operating expenses, debt service requirements and other cash commitments in each of our last five fiscal years. We have financed our operating cash requirements, as well as our capital needs, during these periods with the proceeds of asset sales and financing activities, including additional borrowings, and with our existing cash on hand. Our senior secured notes and the first priority term loans, assuming we elect not to pay interest in the form of additional notes on our second priority notes, require us to make annual cash interest payments of approximately $108 million. We may not be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debt service and preferred stock dividend requirements and we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional financing to meet such requirements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We failed to redeem our outstanding preferred stock by the scheduled redemption dates in the fourth quarter of 2006, and the holders have the right to elect additional directors to our board of directors and to thereby influence our management and policies. We were required to redeem our 141/4% Junior Exchangeable preferred stock and our Convertible Preferred Stock by November 15, 2006 and December 31, 2006, respectively, in each case at a redemption price equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of the outstanding shares plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption price of these securities as of December 31, 2006 was $620.0 million and $171.0 million, respectively. Dividends 22 Table of Contents continue to accrue on the outstanding shares of preferred stock. We do not have the financial resources to redeem these securities for cash and do not expect to have adequate cash to redeem these securities at any time in the foreseeable future. The terms of our outstanding debt limit the amount of these securities that we are permitted to redeem. As a result of our failure to redeem these series of preferred stock by their scheduled mandatory redemption dates, the holders of each series have the right, voting separately as one class, to elect the lesser of two directors and that number of directors constituting 25% of the members of our board of directors. Groups of holders of each series have notified us that they have begun the process necessary to exercise their right to elect additional directors. We therefore expect four additional directors to be elected to our board of directors in the near future. Directors elected by the holders of our preferred stock will be in a position to exert a substantial influence on our management and policies, which could have an adverse effect on us. The owner of two of the television stations that we operate under time brokerage agreements has the right to require us to purchase these stations at an aggregate purchase price of $36 million, and has exercised that right for one of the two stations. We have options to purchase the assets of two television stations serving the Memphis and New Orleans markets for an aggregate purchase price of $36.0 million. The owner of these stations has the right to require us to purchase these stations at any time after January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008, at the same price. We are currently operating these stations under TBAs, whereby we pay monthly fees to the station owners. On January 19, 2007, the owner of the television station serving the New Orleans market exercised its right to require us to purchase this station for a purchase price of $18 million (see “We have a history of significant operating losses and negative cash flow and we may not become profitable in the future.”) We have been in discussions with the station owner regarding the timing and other terms and conditions of our purchase of the station. The value of this station has been adversely affected by developments in the New Orleans television market related to the effects of Hurricane Katrina, and there can be no assurance that the current value of this station equals or exceeds the price at which we are obligated to purchase the station. We may not be successful in operating a broadcast television network. We launched our broadcast television network on August 31, 1998, and are now in our ninth network broadcasting season. Our own experiences, as well as the experiences of other new broadcast television networks during the past decade, indicate that it requires a substantial period of time and the commitment of significant financial, managerial and other resources to gain market acceptance of a new television network by viewing audiences and advertisers to a sufficient degree that the new network can attain profitability. Although we believe that our approach is unique among broadcast television networks, in that we own and operate stations reaching most of the television households that can receive our programming, our business model is unproven and to date has not been successful. We continue to implement significant changes to our business strategy, including changes in our programming and sales operations, in our ongoing efforts to improve our operating performance. Effective January 29, 2007, we changed our network brand identity from “i” to “ION Television”, which reflects our decision to expand from independent programming to content for broader audiences across various age groups. We cannot assure you that our broadcast television network operations will gain sufficient market acceptance to be profitable or otherwise be successful. If the rates at which we are able to sell long form paid programming were to decline, or if our new sales strategy is unsuccessful, our financial results could be adversely affected. Advertising revenues constitute substantially all of our operating revenues. Our ability to generate advertising revenues depends upon our ability to sell our inventory of air time for long form paid programming and commercial spot advertisements at acceptable rates. Long form paid programming rates are dependent upon a number of factors, including our available inventory of air time, the viewing public’s interest in the products and services being marketed through long form paid programming and economic conditions generally. Our revenues from the sale of air time for long form paid programming may decline. We have announced our return to the general network spot advertising market, in which advertising sales are dependent upon audience ratings. Our ratings have declined substantially over the past few years, and we cannot assure you that our return to the general network spot market or 23 Table of Contents the strategic programming alliances that we have entered into will be successful. Although we have significantly reduced our programming expenses, if our new sales strategy is unsuccessful, our financial results could be adversely affected. We may lose a portion of our television distribution platform. We exercised our right to terminate all of our network affiliation agreements effective June 30, 2005 (although most of our network affiliates have continued their affiliation under a month-to-month arrangement). We will seek to replace the distribution lost by the termination of these agreements (consisting of approximately 3% of U.S. primetime television households) through the negotiation of new, more flexible affiliation agreements and carriage agreements with cable systems in the affected markets, as and if such agreements can be concluded on cost efficient terms. A number of our carriage agreements with cable systems in markets where we do not own a television station place restrictions on the type of programming that we may broadcast on the local cable system. Should our programming be inconsistent with these restrictions, the cable systems may have the right to require us to distribute additional entertainment programming over these systems or the right to terminate their carriage agreements with us. Our financial results could be adversely affected if we were required to provide alternative programming to these cable systems or if we were to lose a portion of our distribution through the termination of these agreements. We may be unable to satisfy our obligations to repurchase our senior debt if we experience a change of control. If we were to experience a change of control, with certain significant exceptions, the indentures governing our senior notes and our term loan facility require us to offer to purchase all of the outstanding notes and term loans. Our failure to repurchase tendered notes or term loans upon a change of control would result in an event of default under the indentures and the term loan facility. If a change of control were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to purchase the senior notes and term loans or any other securities which we would be required to offer to purchase. We expect that we would require additional financing from third parties to fund any such purchases, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. The exercise by NBCU, or a permitted transferee of NBCU’s investment in us, of the rights under our agreements with NBCU could adversely affect our business. NBCU has rights under its agreements with us that give it the ability to influence our management and policies and to prevent us from taking actions which our management may otherwise desire to take. Under certain circumstances, these rights may be transferred to, and exercised by, a transferee of NBCU’s investment in us. NBCU or any such transferee may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and debt holders. Our agreements with NBCU provide that we must obtain consent for: • approval of annual budgets; • expenditures materially in excess of budgeted amounts; • material amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • material asset sales or purchases, including sales of our television stations which are located in the top 50 DMAs; • business combinations where we would not be the surviving corporation or as a result of which we would experience a change of control; • issuances or sales of any capital stock, with some exceptions; • stock splits or recombinations; • any increase in the size of our board of directors other than an increase resulting from provisions of our outstanding preferred stock; and 24 Table of Contents • joint sales, joint services, time brokerage, local marketing or similar agreements as a result of which our stations with national household coverage of 20% or more would be subject to those agreements. Some of these rights (budget approval, the sale of stations in the top 50 DMAs, and any increase in the size of our board of directors) will only be exercisable by a permitted transferee of NBCU’s investment in us. Most of these rights will terminate if NBCU’s right to purchase Mr. Paxson’s shares under the agreement entered into on November 7, 2005 expires unexercised. The exercise of any of these rights by NBCU or its transferee could limit our ability to take actions that our management deems to be in our best interest, which could have an adverse effect on us. Our ability to pursue strategic alternatives is subject to limitations and factors beyond our control. Our ability to pursue strategic alternatives to address the challenges facing our company, such as finding a strategic partner for our company who would provide the financial resources to enable us to redeem, restructure or refinance our debt and preferred stock, finding a third party to acquire our company through a merger or other business combination or acquisition of our equity securities, or the sale of all or part of our assets, is subject to various limitations and issues which we may be unable to control. A strategic transaction will, in most circumstances, require that we seek the consent of, or refinance, redeem or repay, NBCU and the other holders of our preferred stock. Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulations may limit the type of strategic alternatives we may pursue and the parties with whom we may pursue strategic alternatives. In addition, our ability to pursue a strategic alternative will be dependent upon the attractiveness of our assets and business plan to potential transaction parties. Among other things, potential transaction parties may find unattractive our capital structure and high level of indebtedness. Our relatively low tax basis in our television station assets is a significant factor to be considered in structuring any potential transactions involving sales of a material portion of our television station assets, and may make certain types of transactions less attractive or not viable. Potential transaction parties may believe our stations and other assets to be less valuable than as shown in prior appraisals we have obtained. We may be prevented from consummating a strategic transaction due to any of these and other factors, or we may incur significant costs to terminate obligations and commitments with respect to, or receive less consideration in a strategic transaction as a result of, these and other factors. We have not been successful to date in our efforts to find or effectuate strategic alternatives for our company, and we may not be successful in doing so in the future. We could be adversely affected by actions of the FCC, the U.S. Congress and the courts that could alter broadcast television ownership rules in a way that would materially affect our present operations or future business alternatives. On June 2, 2003, the FCC adopted new rules governing, among other things, national and local ownership of television broadcast stations and cross-ownership of television broadcast stations with radio broadcast stations and newspapers serving the same market. The new rules as they apply to television ownership have not become effective because the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit issued an order in September 2003 staying their effectiveness. The new rules would change the regulatory framework within which television broadcasters hold, acquire and transfer broadcast stations. Numerous parties asked the FCC to reconsider portions of its decision and other parties sought judicial review. In June 2004, the Third Circuit remanded the proceeding to the FCC with instructions to the FCC to better justify or modify its approach to setting numerical limits. For the television station ownership rules relevant to us, the stay remains in effect pending further review by the Third Circuit of the FCC’s further actions on remand. If the new rules ultimately should become effective they would relax FCC restrictions on local television ownership and on cross-ownership of television stations with radio stations or newspapers in the same market. In general, the new rules would reduce the regulatory barriers to the acquisition of an interest in our television stations by various industry participants who already own television stations, radio stations or newspapers. In 2006 and early 2007, the FCC held proceedings pursuant to the June 2004 remand from the Third Circuit. We cannot predict when a decision will be issued. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004 increased the percentage of the nation’s television households that may be served by television broadcast stations in which the same person or entity has an attributable interest to 39% of national television households and allows an entity that acquires licensees serving in excess of 39% two 25 Table of Contents years to come into compliance with the new cap. This Act also provides that the FCC shall conduct a quadrennial, rather than biennial, review of its ownership rules. In assessing compliance with the national ownership caps (including the recently enacted 39% cap), the FCC counts each “ultra high frequency,” or UHF, station as serving only half of the television households in its market. This “UHF Discount” is intended to take into account that UHF stations historically have provided less effective coverage of their markets than “very high frequency,” or VHF, stations. All of our television stations are UHF stations and, without the UHF Discount, we would not meet the current 39% ownership cap. In its June 2, 2003 decision, the FCC concluded that the future transition to digital television may eliminate the need for a UHF Discount. For that reason, the FCC provided that the UHF Discount will “sunset,” or expire, for the top four broadcast networks (ABC, NBC, CBS and Fox) on a market-by-market basis as the digital transition is completed, unless otherwise extended by the FCC. The FCC also announced, however, that it will examine in a future review whether to include in this sunset provision the UHF television stations owned by other networks and group owners, which would include our television stations. In reviewing the FCC’s new media ownership rules in its opinion referred to above, the Third Circuit determined that this Congressional action meant that it could not entertain challenges to the television cap or to the FCC’s decision to retain the 50% UHF discount. We cannot predict whether any legislation will be adopted by Congress that will significantly change the media ownership rules. Further changes in the nationwide television ownership cap, any further limitation on the ability of a party to own two television stations with signal contour overlap or in the same designated market area, or action by the FCC or Congress affecting the continued availability of the existing UHF discount may adversely affect the opportunities we might have for sale of our television broadcast stations to those television station group owners and major television broadcast networks that otherwise would be the most likely purchasers of these assets. We are required by the FCC to abandon the analog broadcast service of 22 of our full power stations occupying the 700 MHz spectrum, and the digital broadcast service of two stations occupying the 700 MHz spectrum, and may suffer adverse consequences if we are unable to secure alternative distribution on reasonable terms. We hold FCC licenses for full power stations which are authorized to broadcast over either an analog or digital signal on channels 52-69 (“the 700 MHz band”), a portion of the broadcast spectrum that is currently allocated to television broadcasting by the FCC. As part of the nationwide transition from analog to digital broadcasting, the 700 MHz band is being transitioned to use by new wireless and public safety entities. Federal law now requires that, by February 17, 2009, incumbent broadcasters must surrender analog signals and broadcast only on their allotted digital frequency. In some cases, broadcasters, including our company, have been given a digital channel allocation within the 700 MHz band of spectrum. During this transition these new wireless and public safety entities are permitted to operate in the 700 MHz band provided they do not interfere with incumbent or allotted analog and digital television operations. We could suffer adverse consequences if we are unable to secure alternative simultaneous distribution of both the analog and digital signals of those stations on reasonable terms and conditions. We cannot predict the impact, if any, on our business of the abandonment of our broadcast television service in the 700 MHz spectrum. We cannot assure you that we will successfully exploit our broadcast station group’s digital television platform. We have completed construction of digital broadcasting facilities at 52 of our 60 owned and operated stations and are exploring the most effective use of digital broadcast technology for each of such stations. We cannot assure you, however, that we will derive commercial benefits from the exploitation of our digital broadcasting capacity. Although we believe that proposed alternative and supplemental uses of our analog and digital spectrum will continue to grow in number, the viability and success of each proposed alternative or supplemental use of spectrum involves a number of contingencies and uncertainties. We cannot predict what future actions the FCC or Congress may take with respect to regulatory control of these activities or what effect these actions would have on us. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our senior management team and key personnel and the loss of any of them could materially and adversely affect us. Our business depends upon the efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of any of our key executives. If any of our key executives were to leave our employment, our operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a very competitive business environment. We compete for audience share and advertising revenues with other providers of television programming. Our entertainment programming competes for audience share and advertising revenues with the programming offered by other broadcast and cable networks, and also competes for audience share and advertising revenues in our stations’ respective market areas with the programming offered by non-network affiliated television stations. Our ability to compete successfully for audience share and advertising revenues depends in part upon the popularity of our entertainment programming with viewing audiences in demographic groups that advertisers desire to reach. Our ability to provide popular programming depends upon many factors, including our ability to correctly gauge audience tastes and accurately predict which programs will appeal to viewing audiences, to purchase the right to air syndicated programs at costs which are not excessive in relation to the advertising revenue generated by the programming, and to fund marketing and promotion of our programming to generate sufficient viewer interest. Many of our competitors have greater financial and operational resources than we do which may enable them to compete more effectively for audience share and advertising revenues. All of the existing television broadcast networks and many of the cable networks have been operating for a longer period than we have been operating our network, and therefore have more experience in network television operations than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively. Our television stations also compete for audience share with other forms of entertainment programming, including home entertainment systems and direct broadcast satellite video distribution services which transmit programming directly to homes equipped with special receiving antennas and tuners. Further advances in technology may increase competition for household audiences. Our stations also compete for advertising revenues with other television stations in their respective markets, as well as with other advertising media, such as newspapers, radio stations, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, yellow page directories, direct mail and local cable systems. We cannot assure you that our stations will be able to compete successfully for audience share or that we will be able to obtain or maintain significant advertising revenue. We may be adversely affected by changes in the television broadcasting industry or a general deterioration in economic conditions. The financial performance of our television stations is subject to various factors that influence the television broadcasting industry as a whole, including: • the condition of the U.S. economy; • changes in audience tastes; • changes in priorities of advertisers; • new laws and governmental regulations and policies; • changes in broadcast technical requirements; • technological changes; • proposals to eliminate the tax deductibility of expenses incurred by advertisers or to prohibit the television advertising of some categories of goods or services; • changes in the law governing advertising by candidates for political office; and • changes in the willingness of financial institutions and other lenders to finance television station acquisitions and operations. 27 Table of Contents We cannot predict which, if any, of these or other factors might have a significant effect on the television broadcasting industry in the future, nor can we predict what effect, if any, the occurrence of these or other events might have on our operations. Generally, advertising expenditures tend to decline during economic recession or downturn. Consequently, our revenues are likely to be adversely affected by a recession or downturn in the U.S. economy or other events or circumstances that adversely affect advertising activity. Our operating results in individual geographic markets also could be adversely affected by local regional economic downturns. Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the television broadcasting industry and result primarily from fluctuations in advertising expenditures by local retailers. Our business is subject to extensive and changing regulation that could increase our costs, expose us to greater competition, or otherwise adversely affect the ownership and operation of our stations or our business strategies. Our television operations are subject to significant regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Communications Act. A television station may not operate without the authorization of the FCC. Approval of the FCC is required for the issuance, renewal and transfer of station operating licenses. In particular, our business depends upon our ability to continue to hold television broadcasting licenses from the FCC, which generally have a term of eight years. Our station licenses are subject to renewal at various times between 2007 and 2014. Third parties may challenge our license renewal applications. We presently have pending license renewal applications for 18 of our full power stations, four of which have been challenged by third parties. Although we believe that our licenses will be renewed in the ordinary course, including the four license renewal applications presently being challenged, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed. The non-renewal or revocation of one or more of our primary FCC licenses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Communications Act empowers the FCC to regulate other aspects of our business, in addition to imposing licensing requirements. For example, the FCC has the authority to: • determine the frequencies, location and power of our broadcast stations; • regulate the equipment used by our stations; • adopt and implement regulations and policies concerning the ownership and operation of our television stations; and • impose penalties on us for violations of the Communications Act or FCC regulations. Our failure to observe FCC or other rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures or the revocation of a license. In addition, the actions and other media holdings of our principals and our investors in some instances could reflect upon our qualifications as a television licensee. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. Relaxation and proposed relaxation of existing cable ownership rules and broadcast multiple ownership and cross-ownership rules and policies by the FCC and other changes in the FCC’s rules following passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 have affected and may continue to affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition we face, including competition from larger media, entertainment and telecommunications companies, which may have greater access to capital and resources. We are unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on our operations. We believe that the success of our television operations depends to a significant extent upon access to households served by cable television systems. If the law requiring cable system operators to carry our signal were to change, we might lose access to cable television households, which could adversely affect our operations. Each television broadcast station is required to elect, every three years, to either require cable television system operators in the station’s local market to carry their signals, which we refer to as “must carry” rights, or to prohibit 28 Table of Contents cable carriage or condition it upon payment of a fee or other consideration. These “must carry” rights are not absolute, and under some circumstances, a cable system may decline to carry a given station. Our television stations elected “must carry” on local cable systems for the three year election period that commenced January 1, 2006. If the law were changed to eliminate or materially alter “must carry” rights, our business could be adversely affected. The FCC has adopted rules to govern the obligations of cable television systems to carry local television stations during and following the transition from analog to digital television broadcasting. The FCC has determined that broadcasters are not entitled to mandatory carriage of both their analog and digital signals, and that a cable system is required to carry a digital signal only if the broadcaster first gives up its analog signal. Broadcasters with multiple digital programming streams are required to designate a single, primary video stream eligible for mandatory carriage. Broadcasters operating with both analog and digital signals could negotiate with cable television systems for carriage of their digital signal in addition to their analog signal under retransmission consent. We cannot predict what effect those rules will have on our business. The appraised value of our television stations has continued to decline over the past several years, and we cannot assure you that we would actually be able to realize, in any sale, liquidation, merger or other transaction involving our assets, the estimated values of such assets set forth in any appraisal. We have received the appraisal of our television stations that we obtain annually as required by the terms of our existing senior secured notes and our term loan facility. The appraiser concluded that, as of December 1, 2006, the estimated fair market value of the 57 television stations owned and operated by us was $2.06 billion as start-up entities, based entirely on the broadcasting “stick” value of these stations, without consideration of the digital spectrum or analog band clearing value associated with these stations, if any. Additionally, the scope of the appraisal did not consider any values attributable to our other assets, including our program library or the value of our cable and satellite distribution to households that are not served by our broadcast television stations. The appraisals of our assets, including our broadcast television stations, that are prepared by independent valuation firms from time to time are each prepared in accordance with certain procedures and methodologies set forth therein. In general, appraisals represent the analysis and opinion of each of the appraisers as of their respective dates, subject to the assumptions and limitations set forth in the appraisal. An appraisal may not be indicative of the present or future values of our assets upon liquidation or resale. Although appraisals are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that are considered reasonable by the appraiser issuing such appraisal, these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant business, economic, competitive and regulatory uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control or the ability of the appraisers to accurately assess and estimate, and are based upon assumptions with respect to future business decisions and conditions which are subject to change. The opinions of value set forth in any appraisal and the actual values of the assets appraised therein will vary, and those variations may be material. We cannot assure you that we would actually be able to realize, in any sale, liquidation, merger or other transaction involving our assets, the estimated values of such assets set forth in any appraisal. Prospective investors in our securities should not place undue reliance on the appraisals. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 