Risk Factors Related to the Company’s Acquisition and Integration of AirTran The Company may be unable to effectively complete the integration of AirTran’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, delays in integration could cause anticipated synergies to take longer to realize than currently anticipated. The Company must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of AirTran. Potential difficulties the Company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine the AirTran business with that of the Company in a manner that permits the Company to achieve anticipated net synergies and other anticipated benefits of the acquisition; • the inability to successfully maintain passenger unit revenues upon converting AirTran into the Southwest business model; • the challenges currently associated with operating an aircraft type new to the Company, the Boeing 717; • the challenges associated with an expanded or new presence in more congested airports and markets; • the challenges associated with new international operations, including compliance with international laws; • the challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, facilities, and other assets of the Company in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on Customers, suppliers, Employees, and other constituencies; 31 Table of Contents • the challenges associated with integrating the Company’s workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality Customer Service; and • potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than the Company currently anticipates, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays, including costs to integrate AirTran’s business that may exceed the Company’s estimates. Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with Customers, suppliers, Employees and other constituencies or the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, or could reduce the Company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the Company. In addition, integration requirements have caused, and may continue to cause, the Company to delay other strategic initiatives. The Company’s future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations. Upon completion of the Company’s acquisition of AirTran, the size of the Company’s business increased significantly beyond the then current size of either the Company’s or AirTran’s businesses. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which may pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, including new international operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, and other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. The need to integrate AirTran’s workforce presents the potential for delay in achieving expected synergies and other benefits, or labor disputes that could adversely affect the Company’s operations and costs. The successful integration of AirTran and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depend significantly on integrating AirTran’s Employees into the Company and on maintaining productive Employee relations. Failure to do so presents the potential for (i) delays in achieving expected synergies and other benefits of integration or (ii) labor disputes that could adversely affect the Company’s operations and costs. In addition, disputes regarding the integration of AirTran Employees could negatively affect the Company’s historically positive Employee culture. Pending operational integration of AirTran with the Company, it will be necessary to maintain a “fence” between Southwest and AirTran Employee groups subject to CBAs, during which time the Company and AirTran will continue to keep the Employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing CBAs, unless other terms have been negotiated. The Company is expected to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition and the integration of AirTran’s business. The Company is expected to continue to incur substantial integration and transition expenses in connection with the acquisition of AirTran, including the necessary costs associated with integrating the operations of Southwest and AirTran. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems that must be integrated, including reservations, frequent flyer, ticketing/distribution, maintenance, and flight operations. While the Company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the financial benefits the Company expects to achieve from the acquisition, including the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses likely will continue to result in the Company taking significant charges against earnings in future periods, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. 32 Table of Contents The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-U.S. jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject. The Company’s expansion, through AirTran, of its operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the Company is subject, both domestically and internationally. In addition, operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than U.S. laws. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect the Company’s ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law. Further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the Company’s ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. As a result, the Company’s ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. Although the Company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the Company’s Employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. Any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the Company’s policies, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and/or its results of operations. The Company will need to continue certain branding or rebranding initiatives in connection with the acquisition that may take a significant amount of time and involve substantial additional costs and that may not be favorably received by Customers. The Company may incur substantial additional costs in rebranding AirTran’s products and services, and it may not be able to achieve or maintain brand name recognition or status under the Southwest brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed by AirTran in any of AirTran’s markets. The failure of any such rebranding initiative could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain Customers, which could cause the Company not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits contemplated to result from the acquisition. The Company’s ability to use AirTran’s net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of the acquisition, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. Following the filing of AirTran’s May 2, 2011 short period Federal tax return in first quarter 2012, AirTran had Federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $560 million available to offset future taxable income, expiring between 2017 and 2031. Although the Company is limited in the amount of NOLs that can be used in each year, it was able to utilize a portion of such benefits in its 2011 Federal tax return and expects to be able to utilize an additional portion when it files its 2012 Federal tax return. AirTran experienced an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), as a result of its acquisition by the Company. Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income generated that may be offset with pre-ownership change NOLs of the corporation that experiences an ownership change. The limitation imposed by Section 382 of the Code for any post-ownership change year generally would be determined by multiplying the value of such corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable longterm tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by built-in gains or reduced by built-in losses in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. The combined company’s use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be limited unless the combined company were to experience a subsequent ownership change. While the Company expects to be able to utilize the entire amount of such NOLs prior to their respective expirations, the Company’s ability to use the NOLs will also depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOLs may expire before the Company can generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the NOLs. 33 Table of Contents AirTran is currently subject to pending antitrust litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against AirTran in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. A complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was filed against Delta Air Lines, Inc. (“Delta”) and AirTran in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta on May 22, 2009. The complaint alleged, among other things, that AirTran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act, and conspired with Delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of persons or entities in the United States who directly paid Delta and/or AirTran such fees on domestic flights beginning December 5, 2008. After the filing of the May 2009 complaint, various other nearly identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in Atlanta, Georgia; Orlando, Florida; and Las Vegas, Nevada. All of the cases were consolidated before a single federal district court judge in Atlanta. A Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed in the consolidated action on February 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that Delta and AirTran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. In addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to AirTran and to Delta, the Consolidated Amended Complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys’ fees. On August 2, 2010, the Court dismissed plaintiffs’ claims that AirTran and Delta had violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act; the Court let stand the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines’ capacity and pricing decisions. On June 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which AirTran and Delta have opposed. The Court has not yet ruled on the class certification motion. The original period for fact and expert discovery was scheduled to end on February 25, 2011, but on February 3, 2012, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion for supplemental discovery because Delta discovered that it had not produced certain electronic documents. The period for supplemental discovery against AirTran ended on May 3, 2012, but discovery disputes between plaintiffs and Delta have continued. On June 18, 2012, the parties filed a Stipulation and Order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that AirTran and Delta conspired to reduce capacity. AirTran and Delta moved for summary judgment on all of plaintiffs’ remaining claims on August 31, 2012. The plaintiffs filed motions to compel Delta to produce additional documents and for sanctions based on alleged failures to produce electronic data. On November 19, 2012, the Court ordered plaintiffs to appoint an expert to examine Delta’s production of electronic data and suspended the briefing schedule for the summary judgment motion until the expert has completed his work. It is AirTran’s understanding that the expert’s work is ongoing. While AirTran has denied all allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the Consolidated Amended Complaint, and intends to defend vigorously any and all such allegations, results of legal proceedings such as this one cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, this litigation and any potential future claims against the Company or AirTran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should AirTran and the Company fail to prevail in this or other matters, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results. The application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in the Company recording a significant amount of goodwill, which could result in significant future impairment charges and negatively affect the Company’s financial results. In accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, the Company recorded goodwill on its Consolidated Balance Sheet to the extent the AirTran acquisition purchase price exceeded the net fair value of AirTran’s tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. Impairment charges could be recorded in the Company’s results of operations as a result of, among other items, extreme fuel price volatility, a significant decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a significant impairment charge will not occur in one or more future periods. Any such charges may materially negatively affect the Company’s financial results. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 