Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Southwest’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. Southwest’s business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. The cost of fuel is largely unpredictable, and has a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. Also, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations and operating results. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, the Company generally has not been able to increase fares when fuel prices have risen in the past and the Company may not be able to do so in the future. From time to time the Company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. Changes in the Company’s overall fuel hedging strategy, the continued ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge accounting, and the continued effectiveness of the Company’s fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all significant factors impacting the Company’s operating results. For more information on Southwest’s fuel hedging arrangements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Southwest’s business is labor-intensive. Historically, the Company’s relationships with its Employees have been very good. However, the results of labor contract negotiations (approximately 82% of the Company’s Employees are represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions), Employee hiring and retention rates, and costs for health care are items with potentially significant impact on the Company’s operating results. 6 Table of Contents Southwest relies on technology to operate its business and any failure of these systems could harm the Company’s business. Southwest is increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate its business, enhance Customer service, and increase Employee productivity, including the Company’s computerized airline reservation system, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems, website, Automated Boarding Passes system, and the RAPID CHECK-IN self service kiosks. Any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or large-scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications, or the internet, could result in the loss of revenue or important data, increase the Company’s expenses, and generally harm the Company’s business. The travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and cost burdens. The attacks of September 11, 2001 materially impacted, and continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for Southwest and the airline industry generally. Substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees and significant other elements of airline and airport security are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. Enhanced security procedures, including enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, introduced at airports since the terrorist attacks of September 11 have increased costs to airlines. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) could negatively affect Southwest and the airline industry. The war in Iraq further decreased demand for air travel during the first half of 2003, and additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Insurance cost increases or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial results. The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airline carriers. Accordingly, the Company’s insurance costs increased significantly. The federal Homeland Security Act of 2002 requires the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers through a period of time that has now been extended to December 31, 2006. If the federal insurance program terminates, the Company would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. Changes in or additional government regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs or limit the Company’s ability to conduct business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. Additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the Company’s costs or reduce revenues. The airline industry is intensely competitive. The airline industry is extremely competitive. Southwest’s competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as regional and new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and promotions. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, and airline restructuring through bankruptcy may make other carriers more competitive with the Company. Disruptions to operations due to factors beyond Southwest’s control could adversely affect the Company. Like all other airlines, Southwest is subject to delays caused by factors beyond its control, including adverse weather conditions, air traffic congestion at airports, and increased security measures. Delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization, and increase costs, all of which negatively affect profitability. During snow, rain, fog, storms, or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Catastrophic weather conditions such as hurricanes may disrupt operations, and revenues, for a substantial period of time. 7 Table of Contents Southwest’s low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages and many factors could affect the Company’s ability to control its costs. Factors affecting the Company’s ability to control its costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of Employee labor contract negotiations, Employee hiring and retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by the Company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, availability of capital markets, and future financing decisions made by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 