Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future. We have experienced net losses of $8,517,000 and $11,015,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $68,860,000. Although management continues to address many of the legacy issues that have historically burdened our financial performance, we still face challenges in order to reach profitability. In order for us to attain profitability and growth, we will need to successfully address these challenges, including the continuation of cost reductions throughout our organization, execution of our marketing and sales plans for our turnkey energy-efficient lighting solutions business, the development of new technologies into sustainable product lines and continued improvements in our supply chain performance. Although we are optimistic about reaching profitability, there is a risk that our business may not be as successful as we envision. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion in connection with our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K raising substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This opinion stems from our historically poor operating performance, the current economic environment, and our historical inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet obligations and sustain operations without obtaining additional external financing. Although we are optimistic about obtaining the funding necessary for us to continue as a going concern, there can be no assurances that this objective will be successful. As such, we will continue to review and pursue selected external funding sources, if necessary, to execute these objectives including, but not limited to, the following: • obtain financing from traditional or non-traditional investment capital organizations or individuals, • potential sale or divestiture of one or more operating units, and • obtain funding from the sale of our common stock or other equity or debt instruments. Obtaining financing through the above-mentioned mechanisms contains risks, including: • loans or other debt instruments may have terms and/or conditions, such as interest rate, restrictive covenants, and control or revocation provisions, which are not acceptable to management or our Board of Directors, • the current economic environment combined with our capital constraints may prevent us from being able to obtain any debt financing, • financing may not be available for parties interested in pursuing the acquisition of one or more of our operating units, and • additional equity financing may not be available to us in the current economic environment and could lead to further dilution of shareholder value for current shareholders of record. Downturns in general economic conditions and construction trends could continue to materially and adversely affect our business. Downturns in general economic and market conditions, both nationally and internationally, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In most areas, sales of new and existing homes have slowed as well as adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and interest rates, in addition to an oversupply of commercial and residential buildings for sale. In our legacy businesses, sales of our lighting products depend significantly upon the level of new building construction, which are affected by housing market trends, interest rates and the weather. Sales of our pool and spa lighting products depend substantially upon the level of new pool construction, which is also affected by housing market and construction trends. In addition, due to the seasonality of construction, sales of swimming pool and lighting products, and thus our revenue and income, have tended to be significantly lower in the first quarter of each year. Our future results of operations may experience substantial fluctuations from period to period as a consequence of these factors, and such conditions and other factors affecting capital spending may affect the timing of orders. An economic downturn coupled with a decline in our net sales could adversely affect our ability to meet our working capital requirements, support our capital requirements and growth objectives, or could otherwise adversely affect our business financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, any general or market-specific economic downturns, particularly those affecting new building construction and renovation, or that cause end-users to reduce or delay their purchases of lighting products, services, or retrofit activities, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the construction business, we are often required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and other external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relation to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsures of security risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. 9 Table of Contents We may not fully recognize the anticipated revenue reported in our solutions-based backlog. The contracts we enter into related to our solutions-based business can be relatively large and typically range in the amount of $100,000 to as much as $4,000,000. As of December 31, 2010, our solutions-based backlog of uncompleted work was $3,523,000. We include a project in our backlog when a contract is awarded or a letter of intent is obtained. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in the revenue or profits expected. If a project included in our backlog is canceled, suspended or the scope of work is reduced, it would result in a reduction to our backlog which could materially affect the revenues and profits realized. If a customer should cancel a project, we may be reimbursed for costs expended to date but would have no contractual right to the total projected revenues included in our backlog. Cancellations or delay of significant projects could have a material adverse effect on future revenues, profits and cash flows. If we are unable to accurately estimate the risks, revenues or costs associated with a project, we may achieve a lower than expected profit or incur a loss on that project. For the solutions-based segment of our business, we generally enter into fixed price contracts. Fixed price contracts require us to perform a contract for a specified price regardless of our actual costs. As a result, the profit that we realize on a contract is dependent on the extent to which we successfully manage our costs and overruns. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, inaccurate estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a project. A majority of our contracts are based on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions. If our estimates of the risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or circumstances change, we may incur a lower profit or a loss on that project. In addition to the above and in conjunction with the acquisition of SRC, we entered into an agreement with the seller, TLC Investments, LLC., whereby, SRC would be guaranteed a profit percentage of 25% on certain projects which were begun prior to the acquisition or were out for bid at the time the acquisition occurred on December 31, 2009. During 2010, a significant portion of our projects were subject to this guarantee. As these projects are completed and bids for new projects not in this “pipeline” are awarded, we cannot be assured that we will continue to earn the same profit margin as we had earned historically. As a result, we could incur lower profits, cash flows or a loss on these projects. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments, which could result in a charge against earnings. Our solutions-based segment recognizes contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, percentage-of-completion is determined by relating the actual cost of the work performed to date to the current estimated total cost of the respective contracts. When the estimate on a contract indicates a loss, we record the entire loss during the accounting period in which it is estimable. In the ordinary course of business, at a minimum on a quarterly basis, we prepare updated estimates of the total forecasted revenue, cost and profit or loss for each contract. The cumulative effect of revisions in estimates of the total forecasted revenue and costs during the course of the work is reflected in the accounting period in which the facts that caused the revision become known. To the extent that these revisions result in an increase, a reduction or elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. We have significant international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets. For the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009, net sales of our products outside of the United States represented approximately 10.9% and 36.5%, respectively, of our total net sales from continuing operations. We generally provide technical expertise and limited marketing support, while our independent international distributors generally provide sales staff, local marketing, and product services. We believe our international distributors are better able to service international markets due to their understanding of local market conditions and best business practices. International business operations are subject to inherent risks, including, among others: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions, • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems, • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws, • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate, • exposure to different legal standards and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, • currency fluctuations and restrictions, • political, social and economic instability, including war and the threat of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade or other business restrictions, • periodic foreign economic downturns, and • sales variability as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we will need to keep pace with rapid changes in light-emitting diode (“LED”) and fiber optics lighting technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. Development of new products incorporating advanced technology is a complex process subject to numerous uncertainties. We have previously experienced, and could in the future, experience delays in introduction of new products. If effective new sources of light other than LED and fiber optics are discovered, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends, respond on a timely basis with our own development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our net sales to attain or sustain profitability. If we are not able to compete effectively against companies with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. The lighting industry is highly competitive. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our advanced lighting systems, our products compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. Additionally, in the advanced lighting markets in which we have primarily competed to date, competition has largely been fragmented among a number of small manufacturers. However, some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Moreover, in the general lighting market, we expect to encounter competition from an even greater number of companies. Our competitors are expected to include the large, established companies in the general lighting industry, such as General Electric, Osram Sylvania and Royal Philips Electronics. Each of these competitors has undertaken initiatives to develop LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting products than we possess. We may also face competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, such as Acuity Brands Lighting, Cooper Lighting, Hubbell Lighting, Lithonia Lighting, and Royal Philips Electronics. The relatively low barriers to entry into the lighting industry and the limited proprietary nature of many lighting products also permit new competitors to enter the industry easily. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. Additionally, to the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our net sales and profitability, and our future prospects for success, may be harmed. We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and intend to do so in the future, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and existing business. We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions in order to transition our Company into a nationwide, turnkey, energy-efficient lighting systems and solutions company. On December 31, 2009, we acquired Stones River Companies, LLC (“SRC”), and we anticipate making additional acquisitions in the future. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable candidates, • competition from other companies for the purchase of available candidates, • our ability to value those candidates accurately and negotiate favorable terms for those acquisitions, • the availability of funds to finance acquisitions, • the ability to establish new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business, • the ability to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services, and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the acquired businesses. If we are not successful in integrating acquired businesses and completing acquisitions in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our acquisition strategy. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources to completing these acquisitions. Furthermore, acquired businesses may fail to meet our performance expectations. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as rapidly as expected, or at all, investors or analysts may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our performance and stock price could be materially affected. 11 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully integrate businesses we acquire could have adverse consequences on our business. Acquisitions may result in greater administrative burdens and operating costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of integrating acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers, • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems, • failure to maintain the quality of services that the companies have historically provided, • coordinating sales, distribution, and marketing functions, • the need to coordinate geographically diverse organizations, and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to deal with any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we may expect from such acquisitions and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. We consider our technology and processes proprietary. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors may utilize our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or slightly modify our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. As of December 31, 2010 our intellectual property portfolio consisted of 74 issued United States and foreign patents, various pending United States patent applications, and various pending Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications filed with the World Intellectual Property Organization that serves as the basis of national patent filings in countries of interest. Because our patent position involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Our issued patents may be invalidated or their enforceability challenged, and they may not provide us with competitive advantages against others with similar products and technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or technology or duplicate or design around any technologies that we have developed. We may receive notices that claim we have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Even if these claims are not valid, they could subject us to significant costs. We have engaged in litigation and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If critical components that we currently purchase from a small number of third-party suppliers become unavailable or third-party manufacturers otherwise experience delays, we may incur delays in shipment, which would damage our business. We depend on others to manufacture a significant portion of the component parts incorporated into our products. We purchase our component parts from third-party manufacturers that serve the advanced lighting systems market and believe that alternative sources of supply are readily available for most component parts. However, consolidation in the lighting industry could result in one or more current suppliers being acquired by a competitor, rendering us unable to continue purchasing necessary amounts of key components at competitive prices. 12 Table of Contents In an effort to reduce manufacturing costs, we have outsourced the production of certain parts and components as well as finished goods in our product lines to a number of overseas suppliers. We expect to outsource all of the production for selected products. While we believe alternative sources for the production of these products are available, we have selected these particular manufacturers based on their ability to consistently produce these products per our specifications ensuring the best quality product at the most cost effective price. We depend on our suppliers to satisfy performance and quality specifications and to dedicate sufficient production capacity within scheduled delivery times. Although we maintain contracts with selected suppliers, we may be vulnerable to unanticipated price increases and product shortages. Accordingly, the loss of all or one of these suppliers or delays in obtaining shipments could have a material adverse effect on our operations until such time as an alternative supplier could be found. We may be subject to various import duties applicable to materials manufactured in foreign countries and, in addition, may be affected by various other import and export restrictions, as well as other considerations or developments impacting upon international trade, including economic or political instability, shipping delays, and product quotas. These international trade factors will, under certain circumstances, have an impact both on the cost of components, which will, in turn, have an impact on the cost to us of the manufactured product, and the wholesale and retail prices of its products. If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenue and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. We outsource a significant portion of the manufacture and assembly of our products and we expect to outsource all of the production of many of our products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in various locations throughout the world, primarily in the United States, Mexico, China, and Taiwan. These manufacturers supply most of the necessary raw materials and provide all necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. We currently do not have long-term contracts with some of these manufacturers. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us without adequate notice, or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our lighting products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. If it became necessary to do so, we may not be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain additional risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules, • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs, • risk of loss of inventory while in transit from China, Mexico, India, Japan, and Taiwan, and • risks associated with international commerce, particularly with China, Mexico, India, Japan, and Taiwan, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, reductions in revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. We depend on independent distributors and sales representatives for a substantial portion of our net sales, and the failure to manage successfully our relationships with these third parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our net sales to decline and harm our business. We rely significantly on indirect sales channels to market and sell our products. Most of our products are sold through third-party independent distributors and sales representatives. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to end-users. Our current agreements within these sales channels are non-exclusive with regard to lighting products in general, but exclusive with respect to LED lighting and fiber optic products. We anticipate that any such agreements we enter into in the future will be on similar terms. Furthermore, our agreements are generally short-term, and can be cancelled by these sales channels without significant financial consequence. We cannot control how these sales channels perform and cannot be certain that we or end-users will be satisfied by their performance. If these distributors and sales representatives significantly change their terms with us, or change their historical pattern of ordering products from us, there could be a significant impact on our net sales and profits. 13 Table of Contents Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. Despite product testing, defects have been found and may be found in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of net sales, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationship with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our lighting products and would likely harm our business. Some of our products use line voltages (such as 120 or 240 AC), or are designed for installation in environments such as swimming pools and spas, which involve enhanced risk of electrical shock, injury or death in the event of a short circuit or other malfunction. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to end-users or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers and end-users could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed. To a large extent, our future success will depend on the continued contributions of certain employees, such as our current Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, President, and Chief Technical Officer. These and other key employees may be difficult to replace. Although recently our Chief Financial Officer left our employ to pursue other opportunities, on an interim basis we have replaced him with existing employees and are confident of our ability to find qualified permanent replacements in due course. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and management personnel, for whom competition is very intense. The loss of, or failure to attract, hire, and retain, any such persons could delay product development cycles, disrupt our operations, or otherwise harm our business or results of operations. We have been successful in hiring experienced energy solutions salespeople from leading firms in the industry but if these individuals are not successful in achieving our expectations, and then planned sales may not occur and the anticipated net sales may not be realized. A significant portion of our business is dependent upon the existence of government funding, which may not be available into the future and could result in a significant reduction in sales and could cause significant harm to our business. Over the last three years, approximately 87.3% of our research and development efforts have been supported directly by government funding and was contracted for short periods, usually one to two years. Further, a significant portion of net sales generated by SRC are derived from state government funding and supported by federal government funding. If government funding is reduced or eliminated, there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to fund our activities in these areas at their current levels, if at all. If we are unable to maintain our access to government funding in these areas, there could be a significant impact on our net sales and profits. We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of our lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend any existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our net sales might be adversely affected if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all our products. In the United States, we seek, and to date have obtained, certification on substantially all of our products from Underwriters Laboratories or Intertek. Where appropriate in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe, we seek to obtain other similar national or regional certifications for our products. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards have facilitated certification approvals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, that we will be able to maintain such certifications for our existing products. Moreover, although we are not aware of any effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in a manner that would render us unable to maintain certification for our existing products or obtain ratification for new products, our net sales might be adversely affected if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. 14 Table of Contents We must comply with regulatory requirements regarding internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, which will cause us to incur significant costs and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and compliance costs and made certain activities more time-consuming and costly. In the future, there may be material weaknesses in our internal controls that would be required to be reported in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and/or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. A negative reaction by the equity markets to the reporting of a material weakness could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, if we acquire a company with weak internal controls, it will take time to improve the internal controls of the acquired company to a satisfactory level of operating effectiveness. Any failure to improve an acquired company’s financial systems could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information. We have not been in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Prior to the opening of trading on July 14, 2010, the listing of our shares of common stock for trading transferred from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. From time to time during the fourth quarter of 2009 and early in the first quarter of 2010, we did not meet the Global Market’s continued listing requirements that called for the maintenance of a minimum bid price of our common stock of $1.00 per share and minimum shareholders’ equity of $10,000,000. We received formal notices of non-compliance from the Global Market. Although we regained compliance with the continued listing requirements on those occasions, there was a continuing risk that we could again become non-compliant with the requirements. In this regard, our shareholders’ equity as of the end of the first quarter fell below the minimum shareholders’ equity requirement of the Global Market. On May 18, 2010, we received a notification from the Global Market that we had fallen out of compliance and that we had until July 2, 2010 to submit a plan to regain compliance or to submit an application to transfer the listing of our shares of common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market where the minimum shareholders’ equity listing requirement is $2,500,000. On July 2, 2010 we submitted an application to transfer to the Capital Market. On July 9, 2010 the NASDAQ Stock Market informed us that it had approved our transfer application. Our common stock began trading on the Capital Market on July 14, 2010. The Capital Market, like the Global Market, has a continued listing requirement that calls for the maintenance of a minimum bid price of our common stock of $1.00 per share. If the minimum bid price of our common stock should fall below $1.00 for an extended period of time in the future, we will be required to take remedial action on it. We are currently in compliance with all listing requirements. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue a sizeable part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital or acquire businesses in the future, including future lighting retrofit businesses, we may need to issue securities or promissory notes that are convertible or exchangeable for shares of our common stock. These issuances would dilute shareholders’ percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing influence on matters on which our shareholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. Shareholders may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise those options, or if warrant holders exercise warrants purchasing shares of our common stock. At our June 16, 2010 Annual Meeting our shareholders increased the total number of authorized shares of common stock from 30,000,000 to 60,000,000. This increase should meet our needs for unissued common shares for the near and foreseeable future. If an insufficient amount of authorized, but unissued, shares of common stock exists to issue in the long term in connection with a subsequent equity financing or acquisition transactions, we may be required to ask our shareholders to authorize additional shares before undertaking, or as a condition to completing, a financing or acquisition transaction. 15 Table of Contents We may need to request our shareholders to authorize additional shares of common stock in connection with subsequent equity finance or acquisition transactions. We are authorized to issue 60,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 23,962,000 shares were issued and outstanding, as of December 31, 2010. An additional 7,310,000 shares have been reserved for issuance upon exercise of stock options and warrants outstanding and under our Purchase agreement with the Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC. At our June 16, 2010 Annual Meeting our shareholders increased the total number of authorized shares of common stock from 30,000,000 to 60,000,000. This increase should meet our needs for unissued common shares for the near and foreseeable future. If an insufficient amount of authorized, but unissued, shares of common stock exists to issue in the long term in connection with a subsequent equity financing or acquisition transaction, we may be required to ask our shareholders to authorize additional shares before undertaking, or as a condition to completing, an offering or transaction. We cannot be assured that our shareholders would authorize an increase in the number of shares of our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had a significant number of convertible or derivative securities outstanding, including: (i) 1,827,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $3.36 per share, and (ii) 3,291,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $2.12 per share. If or when these securities are exercised into shares of our common stock, the number of our shares of common stock outstanding will increase. Increases in our outstanding shares, and any sales of shares, could have an adverse affect on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. In addition, from time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all, or a portion of, their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or under effective resale prospectuses. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or any resale prospectus may have an adverse affect on the market price of our securities. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can and have placed negative pressure on our common stock price. Our common stock, despite certain increases of trading volume from time to time, experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly-traded.” Financing or acquisition transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become immediately tradable, or other events that cause current shareholders to sell shares, could place negative pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust secondary market may require a shareholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell those shares in increments over time in order to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to legal claims against us or claims by us which could have a significant impact on our resulting financial performance. At any given time, we may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which may have an adverse affect upon our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Information regarding our current legal proceedings is presented below in Part I, Item 3. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 