Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future, and our auditors have issued a “Going Concern” opinion. We have experienced net losses from continuing operations of $6.9 million, $6.6 million and $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.9 million and an accumulated deficit of $83.0 million. Although management continues to address many of the legacy issues that have historically burdened our financial performance, we still face challenges in order to reach profitability. In order for us to attain profitability and growth, we will need to successfully address these challenges, including improvement in gross margins, execution of our marketing and sales plans for our turnkey energy-efficient lighting solutions business, the development of new technologies into sustainable product lines, the continuation of cost reductions throughout our organization, and continued improvements in our supply chain performance. There is a risk that our business may not be as successful as we envision. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion in connection with our 2013 Annual Report raising substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This opinion stems from our historically poor operating performance, and our historical inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet obligations and sustain operations without obtaining additional external financing. Although we are optimistic about obtaining the funding necessary for us to continue as a going concern, there can be no assurances that this objective will be successful. As such, we will continue to review and pursue selected external funding sources, if necessary, to execute these objectives including, but not limited to, the following: ● obtain financing from traditional or non-traditional investment capital organizations or individuals, ● potential sale or divestiture of one or more operating units, and ● obtain funding from the sale of our common stock or other equity or debt instruments or the exercise of outstanding warrants. Obtaining financing through the above-mentioned mechanisms contains risks, including: ● loans or other debt instruments may have terms and/or conditions, such as interest rate, restrictive covenants and control or revocation provisions, which are not acceptable to management or our Board of Directors, ● the current environment in capital markets combined with our capital constraints may prevent us from being able to obtain adequate debt financing, ● financing may not be available for parties interested in pursuing the acquisition of one or more of our operating units, and ● additional equity financing may not be available to us in the current capital environment and could lead to further dilution of shareholder value for current shareholders of record. If we fail to raise additional capital, including from sales revenues, loans or other external funding sources, we may be required to change our planned business strategies. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we may not be able to successfully develop and market our products and services. As a result, we would need to curtail business operations, which would have a material negative effect on operating results, the value of our outstanding stock is likely to fall, and our business may fail, causing our stockholders to lose their entire investments. 7 Depressed general economic conditions, including the strength of the construction market, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the United States. An economic downturn may adversely impact our business. Sales of our lighting products depend significantly upon the level of new building and renovation construction, which is affected by housing market trends, interest rates and the weather. In addition, due to the seasonality of construction and the sales of lighting products, our revenue and income have tended to be significantly lower in the first quarter of each year. We may experience substantial fluctuations in our operating results from period to period as a consequence of these factors. Slow growth in the economy or an economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to meet our working capital requirements and growth objectives, or could otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, any general or market-specific economic downturns, particularly those affecting new building construction and renovation, or that cause end-users to reduce or delay their purchases of lighting products, services, or retrofit activities, would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to factors that are difficult to forecast and not within our control. Our past operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance, and you should not rely on such results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and could fluctuate in the future. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations include: ● changes in aggregate capital spending, cyclicality and other economic conditions, or domestic and international demand in the industries we serve; ● our ability to effectively manage our working capital; ● our ability to satisfy consumer demands in a timely and cost-effective manner; ● pricing and available of labor and materials; ● our inability to adjust certain fixed costs and expenses for changes in demand; ● seasonal fluctuations in demand and our revenue; and ● disruption in component supply from foreign vendors. If LED lighting technology fails to gain widespread market acceptance or we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we depend on continued market acceptance of our existing LED technology. Although adoption of LED lighting continues to grow, the use of LED lighting products for general illumination is in its early stages, is still limited and faces significant challenges. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt LED lighting products as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost or perceived risks relating to its novelty, reliability, usefulness, light quality and cost-effectiveness when compared to other established lighting sources available in the market. Changes in economic and market conditions may also affect the marketability of some traditional lighting technologies such as declining energy prices in certain regions or countries may favor existing lighting technologies that are less energy efficient, reducing the rate of adoption for LED lighting products in those areas. Even if LED lighting products continue to achieve performance improvements and cost reductions, limited customer awareness of the benefits of LED lighting products, lack of widely accepted standards governing LED lighting products and customer unwillingness to adopt LED lighting products in favor of entrenched solutions could significantly limit the demand for LED lighting products and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, we will need to keep pace with rapid changes in LED technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. Development of new products incorporating advanced technology is a complex process subject to numerous uncertainties. We have previously experienced, and could in the future, experience delays in the introduction of new products. If effective new sources of light other than LEDs are discovered, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends, respond on a timely basis with our own development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our net sales to attain or sustain profitability. If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve our desired growth depends on our execution in functional areas such as product development and management, sales and marketing, and general administration and operations. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our product development, distribution, operational and financial processes and systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to compete effectively against companies with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. The lighting industry is highly competitive. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our advanced lighting systems, our products compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. Additionally, in the advanced lighting markets in which we have primarily competed to date, competition has largely been fragmented among a number of small manufacturers. However, some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger, established companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing, as well as greater brand recognition. 8 Moreover, we expect to encounter competition from an even greater number of companies in the general lighting market. Our competitors are expected to include the large, established companies in the general lighting industry, such as GE, Inc., Osram Sylvania, CREE, Inc. and Royal Philips Electronics. Each of these competitors has undertaken initiatives to develop LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting products than we possess. The relatively low barriers to entry into the lighting industry and the limited proprietary nature of many lighting products also permit new competitors to enter the industry easily. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors or suppliers were to merge with one another, the change in competitive landscape could adversely affect our competitive position. Additionally, to the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our net sales and profitability and our future prospects for success may be harmed. If we are unable to obtain and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. We consider our technology and processes proprietary. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors may utilize our proprietary technology. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or slightly modify our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional patents, or licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties that we may need to support our business in the future. The inability to obtain certain patents or rights to third-party patents and other intellectual property rights in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which may result in protracted and expensive litigation. We have engaged in litigation in the past and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, and may attempt to redesign those products that contain allegedly infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible. We also may have to indemnify certain customers if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. The cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few customers and the loss of one of these customers, or a reduction in their demand for our services, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our customer base is highly concentrated. One or a few customers have represented a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues and gross profits in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. In 2013, sales to our ten largest customers from continuing operations accounted for approximately 60% of net sales. Customers accounting for greater than 10% of our net sales from continuing operations include Johnson Controls, Inc., which accounted for approximately 14%, the U.S. Navy, which accounted for approximately 13%, and Seiberlich Trane, which accounted for approximately 12%. A limited number of customers may continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We could lose business from a significant customer for a variety of reasons, including: ● the consolidation, merger or acquisition of an existing customer, resulting in a change in procurement strategies employed by the surviving entity that could reduce the amount of orders we receive; ● our performance on individual relationships with one or more significant customers are impaired due to another reason, which may cause us to lose future business with such customers and, as a result, our ability to generate income would be adversely impacted; and ● the strength of our professional reputation. 9 If critical components and finished products that we currently purchase from a small number of third-party suppliers become unavailable or increase in cost, or if our suppliers fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenue and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed, which would damage our business. In an effort to reduce manufacturing costs, we have outsourced the production of certain parts and components, as well as finished goods in our product lines, to a small number of vendors in various locations throughout the world, primarily in the United States, China and Taiwan. While we believe alternative sources for these components and products are available, we have selected these particular suppliers based on their ability to consistently provide the best quality product at the most cost effective price, to meet our specifications, and to delivery within scheduled time frames. If our suppliers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, we may suffer lost sales, reductions in revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. We may be vulnerable to unanticipated price increases and payment term changes. Significant increases in the prices of sourced components and products could cause our product prices to increase, which may reduce demand for our products or make us more susceptible to competition. Furthermore, in the event that we are unable to pass along increases in operating costs to our customers, margins and profitability may be adversely affected. Accordingly, the loss of all or one of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations until such time as an alternative supplier could be found. Additionally, consolidation in the lighting industry could result in one or more current suppliers being acquired by a competitor, rendering us unable to continue purchasing key components and products at competitive prices. We may be subject to various import duties applicable to materials manufactured in foreign countries and may be affected by various other import and export restrictions, as well as other considerations or developments impacting upon international trade, including economic or political instability, shipping delays and product quotas. These international trade factors will, under certain circumstances, have an impact on the cost of components, which will have an impact on the cost to us of the manufactured product and the wholesale and retail prices of our products. We depend on independent distributors and sales representatives for a substantial portion of our net sales, and the failure to manage our relationships with these third parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our net sales to decline and harm our business. We rely significantly on indirect sales channels to market and sell our products. Most of our products are sold through third-party independent distributors and sales representatives. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to end-users. Our current agreements within these sales channels are generally non-exclusive, meaning they can sell products of our competitors. We anticipate that any such agreements we enter into in the future will be on similar terms. Furthermore, our agreements are generally short-term, and can be cancelled by these sales channels without significant financial consequence. We cannot control how these distributors or sales representatives perform and cannot be certain that we or end-users will be satisfied by their performance. If these distributors and sales representatives significantly change their terms with us, or change their historical pattern of ordering products from us, there could be a significant impact on our net sales and profits. Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. Despite product testing, defects may be found in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of net sales, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, and harm our relationship with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our lighting products and would likely harm our business. Some of our products use line voltages (such as 120 or 240 AC), which involve enhanced risk of electrical shock, injury or death in the event of a short circuit or other malfunction. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to end-users or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers and end-users could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. If we are unable to accurately estimate the risks, revenues or costs associated with a project, we may achieve a lower than expected profit or incur a loss on that project. For the solutions segment of our business, we generally enter into fixed price contracts. Fixed price contracts require us to perform a contract for a specified price regardless of our actual costs. As a result, the profit that we realize on a contract is dependent on the extent to which we successfully manage our costs. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, inaccurate estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a project. A majority of our contracts are based on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions. If our estimates of the risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or circumstances change, we may incur a lower profit or a loss on that project. 10 Additionally, we recognize certain contract revenues, including revenues from our solutions segment, using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, percentage-of-completion is determined by relating the actual cost of the work performed to date to the current estimated total cost of the respective contracts. When the estimate on a contract indicates a loss, we record the entire loss during the accounting period in which it is estimable. In the ordinary course of business, at a minimum on a quarterly basis, we prepare updated estimates of the total forecasted revenue, cost and profit or loss for each contract. The cumulative effect of revisions in estimates of the total forecasted revenue and costs during the course of the work is reflected in the accounting period in which the facts that caused the revision become known. To the extent that these revisions result in a reduction in revenue, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our business may suffer if we fail to comply with government contracting laws and regulations. We derive a portion of our revenues from direct and indirect sales to U.S., state, local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations, and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance, which may provide for various rights and remedies in favor of the governments that are not typically applicable to or found in commercial contracts. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, or suspension from future government contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. We have significant U.S. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (the “Tax Attributes”). Under federal tax laws, we can carry forward and use our Tax Attributes to reduce our future U.S. taxable income and tax liabilities until such Tax Attributes expire in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRC”). Section 382 and Section 383 of the IRC provide an annual limitation on our ability to utilize our Tax Attributes, as well as certain built-in-losses, against future U.S. taxable income in the event of a change in ownership, as defined under the IRC. We may experience a change in ownership in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership that are beyond our control, and any such subsequent changes in ownership for purposes of the IRC could further limit our ability to use our Tax Attributes. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, the remediation of environmental contamination, and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. We may also be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to energy, climate change, geopolitical, or similar concerns. These laws may impact the sourcing of raw materials and the manufacture and distribution of our products and place restrictions and other requirements on the products that we can sell in certain geographical locations. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of solutions segment projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the construction business, we are often required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and other external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relation to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. The surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of security risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. 11 We have international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets. For the year ended December 31, 2013, net sales of our products outside of the United States represented 11% of our total net sales from continuing operations. We generally provide technical expertise and limited marketing support, while our independent international distributors generally provide sales staff, local marketing, and product services. We believe our international distributors are better able to service international markets due to their understanding of local market conditions and best business practices. International business operations are subject to inherent risks, including, among others: ● difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other trade barriers or restrictions, ● potentially adverse tax consequences, ● the burdens of compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, similar anti-bribery laws in other countries, and a wide variety of foreign laws, ● import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate, ● exposure to different legal standards and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, ● currency fluctuations and restrictions, and ● political, social, and economic instability, including war and the threat of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics, boycotts, curtailment of trade or other business restrictions. If we do not anticipate and effectively manage these risks, these factors may have a material adverse impact on our sales, thus lowering our total revenues. We may not fully recognize the anticipated revenue reported in our backlog. The contracts we enter into for our solutions segment can be relatively large and typically range in the amount of $0.1 million to as much as $4.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, our solutions segment backlog of uncompleted work was $1.9 million. We include a project in our backlog when a contract is awarded or a letter of intent is obtained. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or may not result in the revenue or profits expected. If a project included in our backlog is canceled, suspended or the scope of work is reduced, it would result in a reduction to our backlog, which could affect the revenues and profits realized. If a customer should cancel a project, we may be reimbursed for costs expended to date but would have no contractual right to the total projected revenues included in our backlog. Cancellations or delays of significant projects could have a material adverse effect on future revenues, profits and cash flows. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed. To a large extent, our future success will depend on the continued contributions of certain employees, such as our current Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. We had significant turnover in our management team during 2013 and cannot be certain that these and other key employees will continue in their respective capacities for any period of time, and these employees may be difficult to replace. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing, and management personnel, for whom competition is very intense. The loss of, or failure to attract, hire and retain any such persons could delay product development cycles, disrupt our operations, or otherwise harm our business or results of operations. We have been successful in hiring experienced energy solutions salespeople from leading firms in the industry, but if these individuals are not successful in achieving our expectations, then planned sales may not occur and the anticipated net sales may not be realized. A significant portion of our business is dependent upon the existence of government funding, which may not be available into the future and could result in a significant reduction in sales and could cause significant harm to our business. A significant portion of our research and development efforts have been supported directly by government funding and were contracted for short periods, usually one to two years. We anticipate a significant portion of our future product sales will come from the military and maritime markets, specifically the U.S. Navy, which is reliant upon federal funding. Further, a significant portion of net sales generated by EFLS are derived from state government funding and supported by federal government funding. U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by the U.S. Congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. We cannot be certain that our U.S. government contracts will not be terminated or suspended in the future due to reductions or eliminations of government funding. If government funding is reduced or eliminated, there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to fund our activities in these areas at their current levels, if at all, and grow our product sales. If we are unable to maintain our access to government funding in these areas, there could be a significant impact on our net sales and profits and our ability to compete and develop new products. 12 We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of our lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend any existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our net sales might be adversely affected if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all our products. In the United States, we seek certification on substantially all of our products from Underwriters Laboratories (UL®) or Intertek Testing Services (ETL®). Where appropriate in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe, we seek to obtain other similar national or regional certifications for our products. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards have facilitated certification approvals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, that we will be able to maintain such certifications for our existing products. Moreover, although we are not aware of any effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in a manner that would render us unable to maintain certification for our existing products or obtain ratification for new products, our net sales might be adversely affected if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company and our management is required to devote substantial time and financial resources to meet compliance obligations. As a public company reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission, we incur significant legal, accounting, investor relations, board compensation and other expenses. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including section 404 that requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls. In the future, there may be material weaknesses in our internal controls that would be required to be reported in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and/or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. A negative reaction by the equity markets to the reporting of a material weakness could cause our stock price to decline. We could issue additional common stock or may need to request our shareholders to authorize additional shares of common stock, which might dilute the book value and market for our common stock. We are authorized to issue 150,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 51.4 million shares were issued and outstanding, as of March 6, 2014. An additional 41 million shares have been reserved for issuance upon exercise of stock options, warrants or conversion of convertible debt. If or when these securities are exercised into shares of our common stock, the number of our shares of common stock outstanding will increase. Increases in our outstanding shares, and any sales of shares, could have an adverse effect on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue a sizeable part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital or acquire businesses in the future, we may need to issue additional securities or promissory notes that are convertible or exchangeable for shares of our common stock. These issuances would dilute shareholders’ percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing influence on matters on which our shareholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. Shareholders may incur additional and substantial dilution if (a) holders of convertible debt convert their notes, (b) holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise those options, or (c) holders of warrants exercise to purchase shares of our common stock. If an insufficient amount of authorized, but unissued shares of common stock exists to issue in the future in connection with subsequent equity financing or acquisition transactions, we may be required to ask our shareholders to authorize additional shares before undertaking, or as a condition to completing, a financing or acquisition transaction. We cannot be assured that our shareholders would authorize an increase in the number of shares of our common stock. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can and have placed negative pressure on our common stock price. Our common stock trades over-the-counter on the OTCQB Marketplace under the symbol EFOI, which generally lacks the liquidity, research coverage and institutional investors following of a national stock exchange. Our common stock is generally considered to be “thinly-traded.” Additionally, we have entered into in the past or may enter into in the future, financing or acquisition transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become immediately tradable or tradable simultaneously in the future. These factors, coupled with a limited number of market makers, impairs the liquidity of our stock, not only the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also possible delays in the timing of transactions, and lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise prevail. This could make it difficult or impossible for an investor to sell shares of our common stock within a desired timeframe or to obtain a desired price. Any efforts in the future to list our common stock on a national stock exchange will require satisfaction of the initial listing standards for such an exchange, and we currently do not, and may not ever, satisfy those listing standards. 13 In addition, from time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all, or a portion of, their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, or under effective resale prospectuses. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any decision to pay dividends is within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available and other factors. As a result, there is no assurance that there will ever be any cash dividends or other distributions on our common stock. Failure to effectively estimate employer-sponsored health insurance premiums and incremental costs due to the Affordable Healthcare Act could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In March 2010, the United States federal government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation, which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new taxes on health insurers, self-insured companies, and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates that began in 2010 and extend through 2020 with many of the changes requiring additional guidance from federal agencies and regulations. Possible adverse effects could include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, and requirements for us to revise the ways in which healthcare and other benefits are provided to employees. We continue to monitor the potential impacts the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. We may be subject to legal claims against us or claims by us which could have a significant impact on our resulting financial performance. At any given time, we may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which may have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Information regarding our current legal proceedings is presented below in Part I, Item 3. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 