Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below (and in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report) are risk factors that we have identified that may have a negative impact on our future financial performance or affect whether we achieve the goals or expectations expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained herein. Unless indicated otherwise, references below to “we,” “us,” and “our” should be read to refer to Southwest Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries. Governmental policies and regulatory actions can reduce our earnings. Regulatory commissions set our utility customer rates and determine what we can charge for our rate-regulated services. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases depends on regulatory discretion. Governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the Arizona Corporation Commission, the California Public Utilities Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada relating to allowed rates of return, rate structure, purchased gas and investment recovery, operation and construction of facilities, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, changes in tax laws and policies, and changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws such as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 and policies, can reduce our earnings. Risks and uncertainties relating to delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain, regulatory approvals, conditions imposed in regulatory approvals, and determinations in regulatory investigations can also impact financial performance. In particular, the timing and amount of rate relief can materially impact results of operations. We are unable to predict what types of conditions might be imposed on Southwest or what types of determinations might be made in pending or future regulatory proceedings or investigations. We nevertheless believe that it is not uncommon for conditions to be imposed in regulatory proceedings, for Southwest to agree to conditions as part of a settlement of a regulatory proceeding, or for determinations to be made in regulatory investigations that reduce our earnings and liquidity. For example, we may request recovery of a particular operating expense in a general rate case filing that a regulator disallows, negatively impacting our earnings if the expense continues to be incurred. We received regulatory approval of a settlement in our most recent Arizona general rate case filing in which we agreed to not file a general rate case in Arizona until April 30, 2016. This could result in gradual earnings deterioration as costs increase for the duration of the stay-out period. If, despite rate establishment surrounding the decoupling mechanism, approval of the mechanism is rescinded by Arizona regulators, the prohibition against filing a general rate case for the remainder of the stay-out period would be eliminated. We may be subject to disallowances, penalties or fines related to the operation of natural gas pipelines under recent regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We are committed to consistently monitoring and maintaining our distribution system and storage operations to ensure that natural gas is acquired, stored and delivered safely, reliably and efficiently. Due to the combustible nature of our product, we anticipate that the natural gas industry could be the subject of increased federal, state, and local regulatory oversight over 8 Table of Contents time. We intend to work diligently with industry associations and federal, state, and local regulators to ensure compliance with any new laws, such as the “Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011.” We expect there to be increased costs associated with compliance (and potential penalties for any non-compliance) with this and similar laws. If these costs are not recoverable in our customer rates, or if there are delays in recoverability due to regulatory lag, they could have a negative impact on our operating costs and financial results. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by a prolonged economic downturn. The most recent economic slowdown in the United States, and particularly in our service areas, resulted in a marked decline in the new housing market and an increase in the inventory of idle/vacant homes. Commercial entities (including restaurants and other service establishments) were also impacted, resulting in reductions in operations or closures. The impacts of the recent slowdown have eased in our service territories yet effects remain such that the economy has not returned to the levels seen prior to the slowdown. If another economic slowdown occurs, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Fluctuations and uncertainties in the economy make it challenging for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and to identify risks that may affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any future economic slowdowns. If the economy or the markets in which we operate decline from present levels, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on having access to interstate pipelines’ transportation capacity. If these pipelines were not available, it could impact our ability to meet our customers’ full requirements. We must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline capacity to meet customer requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline capacity market, our own in-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our customer base. Interruptions to or reductions of interstate pipeline service caused by physical constraints, excessive customer usage, or other force majeure could reduce our normal supply of gas. A prolonged interruption or reduction of interstate pipeline service in any of our jurisdictions, particularly during the winter heating season, would reduce cash flow and earnings. Our earnings may be materially impacted due to volatility in the cash surrender value of our company-owned life insurance policies during periods in which stock market changes are significant. We have life insurance policies with a net death benefit value at December 31, 2014 of approximately $241 million on members of management and other key employees to indemnify ourselves against the loss of talent, expertise, and knowledge, as well as to provide indirect funding for certain nonqualified benefit plans. The net cash surrender value of these policies (which is the cash amount we would receive if we voluntarily terminated the policies) is approximately $99 million at December 31, 2014 and is included in the caption “Other property and investments” on the balance sheet. Cash surrender values are directly influenced by the investment portfolio underlying the insurance policies. This portfolio includes both equity and fixed income (mutual fund) investments. As a result, the cash surrender value (but not the net death benefits) moves up and down consistent with the movements in the broader stock and bond markets. During 2014, Southwest recognized $5.3 million in Other income (deductions) due to increases in the cash surrender values of its company-owned life insurance policies and net death benefits recognized (compared to an increase of $12.4 million due to increases in cash surrender values and net death benefits recognized in 2013). Current tax regulations provide for tax-free treatment of life insurance (death benefit) proceeds. Therefore, changes in the cash surrender value components of company-owned life insurance policies, as they progress towards the ultimate death benefits, are also recorded without tax consequences. Currently, we intend to hold the company-owned life insurance policies for their duration. Changes in the cash surrender value of company-owned life insurance policies, except as related to the purchase of additional policies, affect our earnings but not our cash flows. The cost of providing pension and postretirement benefits is subject to changes in pension asset values, changing demographics, and actuarial assumptions which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide pension and postretirement benefits to eligible employees. Our costs of providing such benefits are subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, life expectancies of beneficiaries, current and future legislative changes, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, withdrawal rates, interest rates, and other factors. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. For example, lower than assumed returns on investments and/or reductions in bond yields would result in increased contributions and higher pension expense which would have a negative impact on our cash flows and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our liquidity, and in certain circumstances our earnings, may be reduced during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly or are more volatile. Increases in the cost of natural gas may arise from a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas, transportation constraints, transportation capacity cost increases, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, the degree of market liquidity, natural disasters, wars and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, and the success of our strategies in managing price risk. Rate schedules in each of our service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit us to file for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on our profit margins, but do affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of our capital resources. We have used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance increases in purchased gas costs, and we expect to do so during 2015, if the need again arises. We may file requests for rate increases to cover the rise in the cost of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial run-up of these costs or our costs are more volatile. Any disallowance of purchased gas costs would reduce cash flow and earnings. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as gas leaks, fires, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, explosions, pipeline ruptures, and other hazards and risks that may cause unforeseen interruptions, personal injury, or property damage. Additionally, our facilities, machinery, and equipment, including our pipelines, are subject to third party damage from construction activities, vandalism, or acts of terrorism. Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. In addition, any of these or similar events could cause environmental pollution, personal injury or death claims, damage to our properties or the properties of others, or loss of revenue by us or others. We maintain liability insurance for some, but not all, risks associated with the operation of our natural gas pipelines and facilities. In connection with these liability insurance policies, we are responsible for an initial deductible or self-insured retention amount per incident, after which the insurance carriers would be responsible for amounts up to the policy limits. These liability insurance policies require us to be responsible for the first $1 million dollars (self-insured retention) of each incident plus the first $4 million in total claims above our self-insured retention in the policy year. We cannot predict the likelihood that any future event will occur which will result in a claim exceeding $1 million; however, a large claim for which we were deemed liable would reduce our earnings up to and including these self-insurance maximums. Weather conditions in Centuri’s operating areas can adversely affect our operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows can be significantly impacted by changes in weather that affect the ability of Centuri to provide utility companies with contracted-for trenching, installation, and replacement of underground pipes, as well as maintenance services for energy distribution systems. Generally, Centuri’s revenues are lowest during the first quarter of the year due to less favorable winter weather conditions. With the recent acquisition of utility construction businesses that operate in Canada, additional adverse weather impacts could occur. Fixed-price contracts at Centuri are subject to potential losses that could adversely affect results of operations. Centuri enters into a variety of types of contracts customary in the underground utility construction industry. These contracts include unit-priced contracts, unit-priced contracts with revenue caps, and fixed-price (lump sum) contracts. Contracts with caps and fixed-price arrangements can be susceptible to constrained profits, or even losses, especially those contracts that cover an extended-duration performance period. This is due, in part, to the necessity of estimating costs far in advance of the completion date (at bid inception). Unforeseen inflation, or other costs unanticipated at inception, can detrimentally impact profitability for these types of contracts. 10 Table of Contents A significant reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot be certain that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Our credit ratings are subject to change at any time in the discretion of the applicable ratings agencies. Numerous factors, including many which are not within our control, are considered by the ratings agencies in connection with assigning credit ratings. Any future downgrade could increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. A downgrade could require additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertain economic conditions may affect our ability to finance capital expenditures. Our ability to finance capital expenditures and other matters will depend upon general economic conditions in the capital markets. Declining interest rates are generally believed to be favorable to utilities while rising interest rates are believed to be unfavorable because of the high capital costs of utilities. In addition, our authorized rate of return is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, our authorized rate of return in the future could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, it will be more difficult for us to earn our currently authorized rate of return. We require numerous permits and other approvals from various federal, state, and local governmental agencies to operate our business; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could negatively affect our business and results of operations. All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. The acquisition, ownership and operation of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, and local governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. Use of technologies presents a risk for attacks on our information systems and the stability of our operations. Over the last several years we have undertaken a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize and streamline our operations. These efforts have resulted in greater reliance on technological tools. The failure of any of these technologies, or our inability to have technologies supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Additionally, we could experience breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee and vendor information maintained by us in the normal course of business, which could adversely affect the utility’s reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we rely on information technology systems in our natural gas operations segment for our distribution and storage operations. There are various risks associated with these systems including hardware and software failure, communications failure, data distortion or destruction, unauthorized access to data, misuse of proprietary or confidential data, unauthorized control through electronic means, programming mistakes and other inadvertent errors or deliberate human acts. In particular, cyber security attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could damage, destroy or disrupt our business systems. Any failure of information technology systems could result in a loss of operating revenues, an increase in operating expenses and costs to repair or replace damaged assets. As these potential cyber security attacks become more common and sophisticated, we could be required to incur costs to strengthen our systems. Loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect the results of the construction services segment. During 2014, over one-half of the construction services revenues were generated from seven customers. This concentration of risk could be impactful to operating results if construction work slowed or halted with one or more of these customers, if competition for work increased, or if existing contracts were not replaced or extended. 11 Table of Contents Disruptions in labor relations with Centuri’s employees could adversely affect results of operations. The majority of Centuri’s labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, which is typical of the utility construction industry. Labor disruptions, boycotts, strikes, or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases at Centuri, whether due to employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Centuri’s business and our results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisition of construction services businesses. The integration of acquisitions requires significant time and resources. We plan to make investments of resources to support the acquisition, which could result in significant ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas of our business. If we fail to successfully integrate the companies we acquired, we may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and the goodwill recorded as a result of the acquisition could be impaired. Any impairment recorded would reduce operating results of future periods. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 