Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Although the Company is not able to predict all factors that may affect future results, described below (and in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report) are some of the risk factors identified by the Company that may have a negative impact on our future financial performance or affect whether we achieve the goals or expectations expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained herein. Unless indicated otherwise, references below to “we,” “us” and “our” should be read to refer to Southwest Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries. Our liquidity, and in certain circumstances our earnings, may be reduced during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly or are more volatile. Increases in the cost of natural gas may arise from a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas, transportation constraints, transportation capacity cost increases, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, the degree of market liquidity, natural disasters, wars and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, and the success of our strategies in managing price risk. Rate schedules in each of our service territories contain PGA clauses which permit us to file for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on our profit margins, but do affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of our capital resources. We have used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance increases in purchased gas costs, and we expect to do so during 2007, if the need again arises. We may file requests for rate increases to cover the rise in the costs of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial run-up of these costs or our costs are more volatile. Any disallowance of purchased gas costs would reduce cash flow and earnings. Governmental policies and regulatory actions can reduce our earnings. Regulatory commissions set our rates and determine what we can charge for our rate-regulated services. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases depends on regulatory discretion. Governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the ACC, the CPUC, the FERC, and the PUCN relating to allowed rates of return, rate structure, purchased gas and investment recovery, operation and construction of facilities, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, changes in tax laws and policies, and changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies, can reduce our earnings. Risks and uncertainties relating to delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, conditions imposed in regulatory approvals, or determinations in regulatory investigations can also impact financial performance. In particular, the timing and amount of rate relief can materially impact results of operation. We are unable to predict what types of conditions might be imposed on Southwest or what types of determinations might be made in pending or future regulatory proceedings or investigations. We nevertheless believe that it is not uncommon for conditions to be imposed in regulatory proceedings, for Southwest to agree to conditions as part of a settlement of a regulatory proceeding, or for determinations to be made in regulatory investigations that reduce our earnings and liquidity. For example, we may request recovery of a particular operating expense in a general rate case filing that a regulator disallows, negatively impacting our earnings. 6 Table of Contents Significant customer growth in Arizona and Nevada could strain our capital resources. We continue to experience significant population and customer growth throughout our service territories. During 2006, we added 71,000 customers, a four percent growth rate. This growth has required large amounts of capital to finance the investment in new transmission and distribution plant. In 2006, our natural gas construction expenditures totaled $306 million. Approximately 76 percent of these current-period expenditures represented new construction, and the balance represented costs associated with routine replacement of existing transmission, distribution, and general plant. Cash flows from operating activities (net of dividends) have been insufficient, and are expected to continue to be insufficient, to fund all necessary capital expenditures. We have funded this shortfall through the issuance of additional debt and equity securities, and expect to continue to do so. However, our ability to issue additional securities is dependent upon, among other things, conditions in the capital markets, regulatory authorizations, our credit rating, and our level of earnings. Significant customer growth in Arizona and Nevada could also impact earnings. Our ability to earn the rates of return authorized by the ACC and the PUCN is also more difficult because of significant customer growth. The rates we charge our distribution customers in Arizona and Nevada are derived using rate base, cost of service, and cost of capital experienced in a historical test year, as adjusted. This results in “regulatory lag” which delays our recovery of some of the costs of capital improvements and operating costs from customers in Arizona and Nevada. Our earnings are greatly affected by variations in temperature during the winter heating season. The demand for natural gas is seasonal and is greatly affected by temperature. Variability in weather from normal temperatures can materially impact results of operations, particularly in our Arizona service territories where rates are highly leveraged. On cold days, use of gas by residential and commercial customers may be as much as six times greater than on warm days because of the increased use of gas for space heating. Weather has been and will continue to be one of the dominant factors in our financial performance. Uncertain economic conditions may affect our ability to finance capital expenditures. Our ability to finance capital expenditures and other matters will depend upon general economic conditions in the capital markets. Declining interest rates are generally believed to be favorable to utilities while rising interest rates are believed to be unfavorable because of the high capital costs of utilities. In addition, our authorized rate of return is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, our authorized rate of return in the future could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, it will be more difficult for us to earn our currently authorized rate of return. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as gas leaks, fires, natural disasters, explosions, pipeline ruptures, and other hazards and risks that may cause unforeseen interruptions, personal injury, or property damage. Additionally, our facilities, machinery, and equipment, including our pipelines, are subject to third party damage from construction activities and vandalism. Any of these events could cause environmental pollution, personal injury or death claims, damage to our properties or the properties of others, or loss of revenue by us or others. We maintain liability insurance for some, but not all, risks associated with the operation of our natural gas pipelines and facilities. In connection with these liability insurance policies, we have been responsible for an initial deductible or self-insured retention amount per incident, after which the insurance carriers would be responsible for amounts up to the policy limits. The Company’s current insurance contracts limit the self-insured retention to $1 million per incident plus payment of the first $5 million in aggregate claims above $1 million. We cannot predict the likelihood that any future event will occur which will result in a claim exceeding $1 million; however, a large claim for which we were deemed liable would reduce our earnings. 7 Table of Contents We rely on having access to interstate pipelines’ transportation capacity. If these pipelines were not available, it could impact our ability to meet our customers’ full requirements. We must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline capacity to meet customer requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline capacity market, our own in-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our customer base. Interruptions to or reductions of interstate pipeline service caused by physical constraints, excessive customer usage or other force majeure could reduce our normal supply of gas, particularly in our Arizona service territories where we are wholly dependent upon the El Paso pipeline system. A prolonged interruption or reduction of service, particularly during the winter heating season, would reduce cash flow and earnings. A significant reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot be certain that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. For example, in May 2006, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) lowered its rating on the Company’s unsecured long-term debt to Baa3 from Baa2 and changed the outlook for the rating to stable from negative. The change in credit rating will result in an estimated annualized increase of $375,000 in interest expense on existing long-term debt. No debt covenants were affected by the downgrade. Any future downgrade could further increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. A downgrade could require additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 