Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Although we are not able to predict all factors that may affect future results, described below (and in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk of this report) are some of the risk factors we have identified that may have a negative impact on our future financial performance or affect whether we achieve the goals or expectations expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained herein. Unless indicated otherwise, references below to “we,” “us,” and “our” should be read to refer to Southwest Gas Corporation and its subsidiaries. Our liquidity, and in certain circumstances our earnings, may be reduced during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly or are more volatile. Increases in the cost of natural gas may arise from a variety of factors, including weather, changes in demand, the level of production and availability of natural gas, transportation constraints, transportation capacity cost increases, federal and state energy and environmental regulation and legislation, the degree of market liquidity, natural disasters, wars and other catastrophic events, national and worldwide economic and political conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, and the success of our strategies in managing price risk. Rate schedules in each of our service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit us to file for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on our profit margins, but do affect cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of our capital resources. We have used short-term borrowings in the past to temporarily finance increases in purchased gas costs, and we expect to do so during 2010, if the need again arises. We may file requests for rate increases to cover the rise in the cost of purchased gas. Due to the nature of the regulatory process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs during any period in which there has been a substantial run-up of these costs or our costs are more volatile. Any disallowance of purchased gas costs would reduce cash flow and earnings. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by a prolonged economic downturn. The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States, and particularly in our service areas, have resulted in a marked decline in the new housing market and increases in the inventory of idle/vacant homes. Commercial entities (including restaurants and other service establishments) are also being impacted, resulting in reductions in operations or closures. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could result in customers voluntarily reducing consumption. If these trends continue, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Governmental policies and regulatory actions can reduce our earnings. Regulatory commissions set our rates and determine what we can charge for our rate-regulated services. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases depends on regulatory discretion. Governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the ACC, the CPUC, the FERC, and the PUCN relating to allowed rates of return, rate structure, purchased gas and investment recovery, operation and construction of facilities, present or prospective wholesale and retail competition, changes in tax laws and policies, and changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies, can reduce our earnings. Risks and uncertainties relating to delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, conditions imposed in regulatory approvals, or determinations in regulatory investigations can also impact financial performance. In particular, the timing and amount of rate relief can materially impact results of operations. We are unable to predict what types of conditions might be imposed on Southwest or what types of determinations might be made in pending or future regulatory proceedings or investigations. We nevertheless believe that it is not uncommon for conditions to be imposed in regulatory proceedings, for Southwest to agree to conditions as part of a settlement of a regulatory proceeding, or for determinations to be made in regulatory investigations that reduce our earnings and liquidity. For example, we may request recovery of a particular operating expense in a general rate case filing that a regulator disallows, negatively impacting our earnings if the expense continues to be incurred. Our earnings are greatly affected by variations in temperature during the winter heating season. The demand for natural gas is seasonal and is greatly affected by temperature. On cold days, use of gas by residential and commercial customers can be six times greater than on warm days because of the increased use of gas for space heating. Variability in weather from normal temperatures can materially impact results of operations. This is most pronounced in Arizona, where rates are highly leveraged. Rate design is the primary mechanism available to mitigate weather risk. Workshops were conducted with Arizona regulators in 2009 about a decoupled rate structure, but no final decisions have been made. We were authorized to implement a decoupled rate structure in Nevada effective November 2009 that will help stabilize operating margin by insulating us from the effects of lower usage (including volumes associated with unusual weather). The existing rate structure in our California territories includes a balanced margin mechanism which also has an insulating effect on usage volume variability. Uncertain economic conditions may affect our ability to finance capital expenditures. Our ability to finance capital expenditures and other matters will depend upon general economic conditions in the capital markets. Declining interest rates are generally believed to be favorable to utilities while rising interest rates are believed to be unfavorable because of the high capital costs of utilities. In addition, our authorized rate of return is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, our authorized rate of return in the future could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, it will be more difficult for us to earn our currently authorized rate of return. Our earnings may be materially impacted due to volatility in the cash surrender value of our company-owned life insurance policies during periods in which stock market changes are significant. We have life insurance policies with a net death benefit value of approximately $136 million on members of management and other key employees to indemnify ourselves against the loss of talent, expertise, and knowledge, as well as to provide indirect funding for certain nonqualified benefit plans. The net cash surrender value of these policies (which is the cash amount we would receive if we voluntarily terminated the policies) is approximately $58 million at December 31, 2009 and is included in the caption “Other property and investments” on the balance sheet. Cash surrender values are directly influenced by the investment portfolio underlying the insurance policies. This portfolio includes both equity and fixed income (mutual fund) investments. As a result, the cash surrender value (but not the net death benefits) moves up and down consistent with the movements in the broader stock and bond markets. During 2009, Southwest recognized in Other income (deductions) a net increase in the cash surrender values of its company-owned life insurance policies of $8.5 million (compared to a net decline of $12 million in 2008). Current tax regulations provide for tax-free treatment of life insurance (death benefit) proceeds. Therefore, changes in the cash surrender value components of company-owned life insurance policies as they progress towards the ultimate death benefits are also recorded without tax consequences. Currently, we intend to hold the company-owned life insurance policies for their duration and purchase additional policies as necessary. Changes in the cash surrender value of company-owned life insurance policies affect our earnings but not our cash flows. 7 Table of Contents The cost of providing pension and postretirement benefits is subject to changes in pension asset values, changing demographics, and actuarial assumptions which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide pension and postretirement benefits to eligible employees. Our costs of providing such benefits is subject to changes in the market value of our pension fund assets, changing demographics, life expectancies of beneficiaries, current and future legislative changes, and various actuarial calculations and assumptions. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, withdrawal rates, interest rates, and other factors. These differences may result in a significant impact on the amount of pension expense or other postretirement benefit costs recorded in future periods. For example, lower than assumed returns on investments and/or reductions in bond yields would result in increased contributions and higher pension expense which would have a negative impact on our cash flows and results of operations. A significant reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot be certain that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Our credit ratings are subject to change at any time in the discretion of the applicable ratings agencies. Numerous factors, including many which are not within our control, are considered by the ratings agencies in connection with assigning credit ratings. Any future downgrade could increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. We would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. A downgrade could require additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as gas leaks, fires, natural disasters, explosions, pipeline ruptures, and other hazards and risks that may cause unforeseen interruptions, personal injury, or property damage. Additionally, our facilities, machinery, and equipment, including our pipelines, are subject to third party damage from construction activities and vandalism. Any of these or similar events could cause environmental pollution, personal injury or death claims, damage to our properties or the properties of others, or loss of revenue by us or others. We maintain liability insurance for some, but not all, risks associated with the operation of our natural gas pipelines and facilities. In connection with these liability insurance policies, we are responsible for an initial deductible or self-insured retention amount per incident, after which the insurance carriers would be responsible for amounts up to the policy limits. Our current liability insurance policies require us to be responsible for the first $1 million dollars (self-insured retention) of each incident plus the first $5 million annually in total claims above our self-insured retention. We cannot predict the likelihood that any future event will occur which will result in a claim exceeding $1 million; however, a large claim for which we were deemed liable would reduce our earnings. We rely on having access to interstate pipelines’ transportation capacity. If these pipelines were not available, it could impact our ability to meet our customers’ full requirements. We must acquire both sufficient natural gas supplies and interstate pipeline capacity to meet customer requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate delivery capacity for our distribution system, while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline capacity market, our own in-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our customer base. Interruptions to or reductions of interstate pipeline service caused by physical constraints, excessive customer usage or other force majeure could reduce our normal supply of gas. A prolonged interruption or reduction of interstate pipeline service in any of our jurisdictions, particularly during the winter heating season, would reduce cash flow and earnings. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 Table of Contents 