Item 1A. Risk Factors Going Concern/Liquidity Risk: Our independent public auditing firm has issued an opinion raising substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern throughout 2009. This opinion stems from the combination of the worsening global economic crisis, the historical losses we have incurred leading to an accumulated deficit of $49,328,000 as of December 31, 2008, our history of not meeting management budgetary forecasts, and our historical inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet obligations and sustain operations without obtaining additional external financing. The global credit market crisis has also had a dramatic effect on our industry and customer base. The recession in the United States and Western Europe and the slowdown of economic growth in the rest of the world created a business environment where it is substantially more difficult to obtain equity funding and additional non-equity financing. Furthermore, this environment has resulted in an increased risk of customer payment defaults. Our liquidity position, as well as our operating performance, was negatively affected by these economic and industry conditions and by other financial and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Management acknowledges that sustaining our historical level of cash utilization is not conducive to remaining a viable entity in this environment, and is in the process of aggressively transforming our business into a turnkey, comprehensive energy-efficient lighting solutions provider. In addition, management continues to aggressively reduce costs, as evidenced in the $1,984,000 decrease in operating expenses, excluding loss on impairment in 2008, from 2007 levels. These cost reductions have been achieved while simultaneously realigning and expanding our sales and marketing organization. In this regard, we have been very successful in hiring highly experienced salespeople from leading “Fortune 500” firms including our new Vice President of Sales. Further, we have aligned our entire engineering and research and development organization around sales and marketing to expedite new product introductions into our served available markets. This realignment is readily evidenced by the 2008 introduction of multiple new products including; · MR-16 halogen replacement bulbs, · LED Cold Storage Globe lamps, · LED Lamps and Fixtures (“PAL”), · LED Light Rails, · LED Docklights, · HID High Bay Fixtures, · Fluorescent fixtures, and · Compact Fluorescent Light Bulbs Lastly, we expect to continue our on-going leadership role in the United States government’s Very High Efficiency Solar Cell (“VHESC”) Consortium sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (“DARPA”) where we expect to be able to commercialize a solar cell technology that will significantly surpass current solar efficiencies ranging from 6% - 20%. Our proven optics technology has already shown the ability to achieve approximately 40% efficiency in a laboratory environment and we believe that this efficiency, or greater, can be achieved on a cost-effective, commercially-viable scale. Although we are optimistic about obtaining the funding necessary for us to continue as a going concern through internal means, there can be no assurances that this objective will be successful. Therefore, in the event that our cash reserves and bank lines of credit are deemed by management to not be sufficient to continue to fund operations throughout 2009, we will aggressively pursue one or more of the following external funding sources: · obtain loans and/or grants available through federal, state, and/or local governmental agencies, · obtain loans and/or grants from various financial institutions, · obtain loans from non-traditional investment capital organizations, · sale and/or disposition of one or more operating units, and · obtain funding from the sale of our common stock or other equity instruments. Obtaining financing through the above mentioned mechanisms contain risks, including: · government stimulus and/or grant money is not allocated to us despite our focus on the design, development, and manufacturing of energy efficient lighting systems, · loans or other debt instruments may have terms and/or conditions, such as interest rate, restrictive covenants, and control or revocation provisions, which are not acceptable to management or our Board of Directors, · the current global economic crisis combined with our current financial condition may prevent us from being able to obtain any debt financing, · financing may not be available for parties interested in pursuing the acquisition of one or more of our operating units, and · additional equity financing may not be available to us in the current economic environment and could lead to further dilution of shareholder value for current shareholders of record. 10 Global Economic Risk: We may continue to be adversely impacted by the weakness in the general economic environment including the current recessionary and inflationary pressures. Deteriorating economic and market conditions including declines in real estate values and new construction, rising unemployment, tightened credit markets, and weakened consumer confidence are not expected to improve during 2009 and may continue to contribute towards weak product sales. Specifically, the downturn in housing construction has adversely affected the sale of pool lighting products, while the consumer credit crisis may continue to cause retail sales to decrease. Furthermore, material and labor costs may increase as a result of inflationary pressures on certain raw material prices. We have significant international activities and customers and plan to continue these efforts. These activities subject us to additional business risks including logistical complexity and the general economic conditions in those markets. Because the market for our products tends to be highly dependent upon general economic conditions, a continued decline in the general world-wide economic environment is likely to continue to adversely impact our traditional product based operating results. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include the following: · multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements, and other government approvals, permits, and licenses; · difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations such as our offices in Germany and the United Kingdom; · difficulties and costs in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; · increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; · potentially adverse tax consequences; political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade, and other business restrictions; and · currency fluctuations. In addition, we face additional risks in the Asia/Pacific region associated with disease, increased political tensions between countries in that region, potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, government-fixed foreign exchange rates, relatively uncertain legal processes, and developing telecommunications infrastructures. In addition, some countries in this region, such as China and Japan, have adopted laws, regulations, and policies that impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in their countries or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Competitive Risk: Global competition exists in all of the markets we serve, including our energy solutions market. A number of companies offer directly competitive products and services, including colored halogen lighting for swimming pools and incandescent and fluorescent lighting for commercial decorative and accent lighting. We also compete with LED products in industrial lighting and pool related products. In addition, many of our competitors in the pool lighting market bundle their lighting products with other pool-related products, which many customers find to be an attractive alternative. Our competitors include large and well-established companies such as General Electric, Sylvania, Philips, Schott, 3M, Bridgestone, Pentair, Mitsubishi, and OSRAM/Siemens. Our company also competes with lighting energy solutions companies. Furthermore, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. We may not be able to adequately respond to technological developments or fluctuations in competitive pricing. We anticipate that any future growth in energy-efficient lighting will be accompanied by continuing increases in competition, which could adversely affect our operating results if we cannot compete effectively. To stay competitive, we must continue to allocate sufficient resources to research and development, which could negatively impact our gross margins. If we are unable to provide more efficient lighting technology than our competitors, our operating results will be adversely affected. Technological Risk: The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and speed of new product introductions. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets, and to reduce the production costs of existing products. Many of our strategic initiatives are aimed at developing increasingly complex energy efficient lighting solutions. The process of developing this new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new products before knowing with certainty that our investments will result in products the market will accept. Furthermore, we may not be able to execute successfully because of technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Specifically, the products and technologies that we identify as “emerging technologies,” may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or advanced technologies as appropriate. 11 Supplier Risk: We require substantial amounts of purchased materials from selected vendors. With specific materials, we purchase 100% of our requirement from a single vendor. Included in purchased materials are small diameter stranded fiber, plastic fixtures, lamps, reflectors, and power supplies. Substantially all of the materials we require are in adequate supply. However, the availability and costs of materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocation to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results or operations by decreasing our profit margins and by hindering our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. We have experienced an increase in the costs in certain petroleum-based materials. Although we may determine that it is necessary to pass on the material price increases to our customers, in certain circumstances, it may not be possible for us to pass on these increases. Even if we are able to pass on some or all of these increases, there may be a delay between when we have to pay for the increases and when our customers pay us based on the increased prices. If we are not able to reduce or eliminate the effect of these cost increases through lowering other costs of production or successfully implementing price increases to our customers, such material cost increases could have a negative effect on our operating and financial results. Third-Party Risk: Three strategic pieces of equipment are operated by third parties. Failure to properly maintain the equipment and/or the creation of any delays or inabilities to meet our production requirements on the part of any of these suppliers will result in disruption of promised delivery to our clients. Credit Risk: In this climate of global financial and banking crisis, the ability of our customers to maintain credit availability has become more challenging. In particular, certain customers in the pool lighting market and companies that are highly leveraged represent an increasing credit risk. Some customers have reduced their purchases because of these credit constraints. Moreover, our disciplined credit policies have, in some instances, resulted in delayed customer sales. In 2008, we experienced an increase in customer bankruptcies and voluntary liquidations. Continued deterioration of global economic conditions could result in additional customer credit constraints, particularly within our pool lighting market. These actions could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Intellectual Property Risk: As of December 31, 2008, our intellectual property portfolio consisted of 64 issued United States and foreign patents, various pending United States patent applications, and various pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, patent applications filed with the World Intellectual Property Organization that serves as the basis of national patent filings in countries of interest. As of December 31, 2008 a total of 15 applications were pending. Our issued patents expire at various times between January 2013 and October 2026. Generally, the term of patent protection is 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the patent application. There can be no assurance, however, that our issued patents are valid or that any patents applied for will be issued. There can be no assurance that our competitors or customers will not copy aspects of our lighting systems or obtain information that we regard as proprietary. There also can be no assurance that others will not independently develop products similar to ours. The laws of some foreign countries in which we sell or may sell our products do not protect proprietary rights to products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Key Employee Risk: Our future success will depend to a large extent on the continued contributions of certain employees, such as our current chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, and chief technical officer. These and other key employees would be difficult to replace. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and management personnel, for whom competition is very intense. The loss of, or failure to attract, hire, and retain, any such persons could delay product development cycles, disrupt our operations, or otherwise harm our business or results of operations. We have been successful in hiring experienced energy solutions salespeople from leading firms in the industry including our new Vice President of Sales. However, if these individuals are not successful in achieving our expectations, then planned sales may not occur and the anticipated revenues may not be realized. Risk of Losing Governmental Funding for Research: Historically, approximately 43.9% of our research and development efforts have been supported directly by government funding. In 2008, approximately 29.0% of our research and development funding came from government sources and was contracted for short periods, usually one to two years. If government funding is reduced or eliminated, there is no guarantee that we would be able to continue to fund our research and development efforts in technology and products at their current levels, if at all. If we are unable to support our research and development efforts, there is no guarantee that we would be able to develop enhancements to our current products or develop new products. Litigation Risk: At any given time, we may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Information regarding the company’s current legal proceedings is presented in Part I, Item 3. Foreign Risk: We use plants in Mexico, India, and Taiwan to manufacture and assemble many of our pool lighting products. The supply of these finished goods may be impacted by local political or social conditions as well as the financial strength of the companies with which we do business. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 