Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our company. You should consider these matters in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Our results of operations or financial condition could be seriously harmed, and the trading price of our common stock may decline due to any of these or other risks. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses and anticipate continued losses in fiscal 2007. At September 30, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of $61,060,587. We need to generate additional revenue and reduce operating expenses to be profitable in future periods. Failure to achieve profitability, or maintain profitability if achieved, may require us to raise additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock. We may need additional capital for growth. Our current plans indicate that, depending on sales, we may need additional capital to support our growth. We may generate a portion of these funds from operations. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include: • failure of sales from our Government and Military Group or Commercial Group to meet planned projections; • government spending levels impacting the sale of our products; • our ability to reduce and control spending; • introduction of new competing technologies; • product mix and effect on margins; and • acceptance of our products in new markets. Should we require additional funds, general market conditions or the then-current market price of our common stock may not support capital raising transactions and any such financing may require advance approval of our stockholders under the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market. We may be required to reduce costs, including the scaling back of research and development into new products, which could have a negative impact on our ability to compete and to innovate. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock (assuming we are able to obtain additional financing), the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted. 16 Table of Contents Two related customers accounted for 40% of our total revenues for fiscal year 2006. We continue to be dependent on a few large customers. Two related customers accounted for 24% and 16% of total revenues for the fiscal year 2006. These customers have the right to cease doing business with us at any time. If our relationship with any material customer were to cease, then our revenues would decline substantially and negatively impact our results of operations. Any such decline could result in us increasing our net losses and accumulated deficit and a need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. We must expand our customer base in order to grow our business. To grow our business, we must fulfill orders from our existing customers, obtain additional orders from our existing customers, develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from new customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our customer base. Further, even if we do obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase from us enough quantities of our product or at product prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling those orders. Whether we will be able to sell more of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to manufacture reliable products that have the features that are required by our customers; • our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to additional orders for our products; • our ability to develop and expand new markets for directed sound products; and • our ability to develop international product distribution directly or through strategic partners. The growth of our Government and Military Group revenues is materially dependent on acceptance of our LRAD products by government, military and developing force protection and emergency response agencies. If these agencies do not purchase our LRAD products, our revenues will be adversely affected. Although our LRAD products are designed for use by both government and commercial customers, the products have, to date, been predominantly sold for government use. Within the Government and Military Group, our largest customer, ADS, is a reseller of our products to end users in various branches of the military such as the U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Army and the Department of Homeland Security. We had a large order for LRAD products in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, but sales of LRADs to Government and Military Group customers since that order have been significantly lower. We began offering our smaller LRAD500 in our fiscal fourth quarter 2005. Neither of the products has been widely accepted in the government and military market. Furthermore, the force protection and emergency response market is itself an emerging market that is changing rapidly. If our LRAD products are not widely accepted by the government, military and the developing force protection and emergency response markets, we may not be able to identify other markets, and we may fail to achieve our sales projections. Perceptions that long range hailing devices are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner may hurt sales of our LRAD products which could cause our revenues to decline. Potential customers for our LRAD products, including government, military and force protection and emergency response agencies, may be influenced by claims or perceptions that long range hailing devices are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner or as a weapon. These claims or perceptions could cause our product sales to decline or possibly subject the sale of these products to stricter government regulations covering the sale of weapons. In addition, if governmental agencies determine that our products could be classified as a weapon, our sales of these products could be negatively impacted by longer sales cycle. These factors could reduce future revenues, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the U.S. Federal government required for us to sell some of our products abroad. Licenses for the export of certain of our products may be required from government agencies in accordance with various statutory authorities, including, for example, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, the Export Administration Act of 1979, or the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as well as their implementing regulations and executive orders. In the case of agreements involving equipment or services controlled under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and sold at specified dollar volumes, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the intended overseas destination, prior to authorizing these sales. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We do not believe our current product lines are subject to the congressional notification requirement. However, as our product lines expand, this notification requirement could impact our ability to sell controlled products or services in the international market. The need for export licenses and, when required, congressional notification, can introduce a period of delay in our ability to consummate international transactions. Because issuance of an export license is wholly within the discretion of the controlling U.S. government agency, it is possible that, in some circumstances, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses for some potential transactions. We are currently introducing new products and technologies. If commercially successful products are not produced in a timely manner, we may be unprofitable or forced to cease operations. Our HSS, NeoPlanar, SoundVector and LRAD technologies have had only limited market acceptance and are still being improved. Commercially viable sound technology systems may not be successfully and timely produced by us due to the inherent risks of technology development, new product introduction, limitations on financing, manufacturing problems, competition, obsolescence, loss of key technical personnel and other factors. Revenues from our sound products have been limited to date and we cannot guarantee significant revenues in the future. The development and introduction of our HSS product took longer than anticipated by management and the introduction of future products, if any, could also be subject to delays. Customers may not accept our current products and may elect to purchase products from competitors. We experienced quality control problems with some of our initial commercial HSS units, and we may not be able to resolve similar problems in a timely and cost effective manner. Products employing our sound technology may not achieve market acceptance. Our various sound projects are high risk in nature, and unanticipated technical obstacles can arise at any time and result in lengthy and costly delays or result in a determination that further exploitation is unfeasible. If we do not successfully exploit our technology, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be adversely affected. Our products have never been produced in quantity, and we may incur significant and unpredictable warranty costs as these products are mass produced. None of our products has been produced in sufficient quantities to be considered mass produced. Our technologies are substantially different from proven, mass produced sound transducer designs. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase, depending on the product. At September 30, 2006, we had a warranty reserve of $805,162. In prior years, we recorded substantial warranty reserves for early versions of our HSS products and have little history to predict future warranty costs. Future warranty costs could further adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory. Due to rapidly changing technology, and uneven customer demand, product cycles tend to be short and the value of our inventory may be adversely affected by changes in technology that affect our ability to sell the 18 Table of Contents products in our inventory. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which in turn can adversely affect cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new product introductions. We currently have established reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory. The reserves we have established for potential losses due to obsolete inventory may, however, prove to be inadequate and may give rise to additional charges for obsolete or excess inventory. We do not have the ability to predict future operating results. Our quarterly and annual revenues are likely to fluctuate significantly due to many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our revenue expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues from these products and technologies are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Any one or more of the factors listed below or other factors could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: • our ability to develop and supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors or OEMs or to license our technologies; • market acceptance of and changes in demand for our products or products of our customers; • gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products and OEM products; • fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; • the timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; • product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; • unpredictable warranty costs associated with new product models; • production delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or by us or our suppliers; • seasonal fluctuations in sales; • the conditions of other industries, such as military and commercial industries, into which our technologies may be licensed; • general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; • general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and • general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we offer. Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies, and therefore adversely affect our future operating results. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to rapidly adjust spending to compensate for any unexpected sales or license revenue shortfalls, which could harm our quarterly operating results. We do not have the ability to predict future operating results with any certainty. 19 Table of Contents Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and longer established electronic and loudspeaker manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and facilities, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any of ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Sound reproduction markets are subject to rapid technological change, so our success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new technologies. Technology and standards in the sound reproduction markets evolve rapidly, making timely and cost-effective product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our technologies obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products timely in response to industry changes, or if our technologies do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. The life cycles of our technologies are difficult to estimate, particularly those such as HSS and LRAD for which there are no well established markets. As a result, our technologies, even if successful, may become obsolete before we recoup our investment. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop competing technologies, or the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position will be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our technology. For example, patent protection on our LRAD products is limited, and we may not be able to prevent others from introducing products with similar functionality. If this happens, any patent that we may obtain may not provide protection and our competitive position could be significantly harmed. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products can be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. As a result, we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. As of September 30, 2006, we concluded that we had three material weaknesses in our internal control related to inventory valuation and stock option accounting and the preparation of income tax provisions and related disclosures. The existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result of these material weakness, management’s assessment as of September 30, 2006 concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective. It is also possible that additional material weaknesses will be identified in the future. Because we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective and because our independent registered public accountants issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and to the extent we identify future weaknesses or deficiencies, there could be material misstatements in our financial statements and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. As a result, our ability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, perceptions of us could also be adversely affected among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others. Current material weaknesses or any future weaknesses or deficiencies could also hurt confidence in our business and consolidated financial statements and our ability to do business with these groups. 21 Table of Contents Our HSS technology is subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our HSS sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations, and as such is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. In the event of certain unanticipated defects in an HSS product, a customer or we may be required to comply with FDA requirements (1) to provide written notification of the defect to: the FDA; dealers or distributors to whom the product was delivered; and purchasers of the product (and any reasonably ascertainable subsequent transferees), and (2) to repair, replace, or refund to the purchaser the cost of the product. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our HSS technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Some of our products are capable of sufficient acoustic output to cause damage to human hearing or human health if used improperly, such as when the products are used at close ranges or for long periods of exposure. A person injured in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. Our product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. Product liability insurance may also become too costly for us or may become unavailable for us in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in negative publicity and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our international operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. We expect to sell our products worldwide. The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our customers and our suppliers. These risks include: • changes in tariff regulations; • political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; • lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; • import and export licensing requirements; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the U.S.; and • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. These and other risks may preclude or curtail international sales or increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products. The WEEE and RoHS directives in Europe may impact the cost of our products and/or our ability to sell products in Europe. The European Union (EU) has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the 22 Table of Contents Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium and halogenated flame-retardants. In order to comply with the WEEE directive, we will be required to contribute to the cost of collection, treatment, disposal and recycling of past and future covered products. In order to comply with the RoHS directive, we may need to substantially alter product designs and/or find alternate suppliers for critical components used in those products. Because detailed regulations on practices and procedures related to WEEE and RoHS are evolving in member states and because we have yet to assess fully the ramifications to our products, we are presently unable to estimate the amount of any costs that we may incur in order to comply with WEEE and RoHS. Failure to achieve compliance with the RoHS directive prior to the required implementation date would adversely impact our ability to sell products in EU member states that have begun enforcement of the directive. Our inability to maintain or find collaborators and strategic alliance relationships in the future may inhibit our ability to develop our proprietary sound technologies and products. Commercialization of our proprietary sound technologies depends on collaborations with other companies. An important part of our strategy is to establish business relationships with leading participants in various segments of the electronics, government and sound reproduction markets to assist us in producing, distributing, marketing and selling products that include our proprietary sound technologies. If we fail to enter into such strategic arrangements with third parties, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business prospects will be adversely affected. Any future relationships may require us to share control over our development, manufacturing and marketing programs or to relinquish rights to certain versions of our sound and other technologies. We rely on outside manufacturers and suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products and may rely on the complete production of our products by third parties in the future. Our products have a large number of components and sub-assemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on our HSS piezo-film supplier to provide expertise and materials used in our proprietary HSS emitters. If shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Although we have the ability to assemble our products internally, we have from time to time and in the future may have some or all of our products produced by third-party manufacturers either for major subassemblies or on a comprehensive basis. We may be required to outsource manufacturing if sales of our products increase significantly. We have historically used a single third-party contract manufacturer to manufacture major sub-assemblies or products, and we expect to continue to use a single manufacturer in the future until product volume grows substantially. We may be unable to obtain acceptable manufacturing sources on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time we may change manufacturers and any new manufacturer engaged by us may not perform as expected. An extended interruption in the supply of our products could result in a substantial loss of sales. Furthermore, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third-party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased warranty costs, product returns and buybacks. Failure to maintain quality manufacturing could reduce future revenues, adversely affecting financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government or foreign governments are subject to government regulations and audits and other requirements. Government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, 23 Table of Contents financial condition or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing government contracts. If we violate any of these regulations, then we may be subject to termination of these contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from government contracting and government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract and subcontract costs and revenues may be subject to adjustment as a result of audits by government auditors. We derive revenue from government contracts and subcontracts, which are often non-standard, may involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. Our Government and Military Group business has involved and is expected in the future to involve providing products and services under contracts or subcontracts with U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts and subcontracts from government agencies is challenging, and contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; • be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political influence; • contain onerous procurement procedures; and • be subject to cancellation if government funding becomes unavailable. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Our success is dependent on the performance and integration of our executive team, and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. We have experienced significant recent changes in our senior management. Thomas R. Brown became our President and Chief Executive Officer in September 2006. The duties of Mr. Elwood G. Norris, our Chairman, have shifted from principal executive officer to a technical advisory role and spokesman for our company’s technologies. Later in September 2006, our board approved a restructuring of senior management of our company. Our Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Marketing, Vice President, Commercial Products Group, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and Vice President, Operations were released in connection with the restructuring, and Mr. Brown assumed the position of Interim Chief Financial Officer. Our Vice President of Sales resigned in November 2006. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance and integration of our new President, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer. Our performance also continues to be substantially dependent on Mr. Norris. Mr. Brown has not previously worked with the remainder of our executive team, except in his prior capacity as a director. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. We are also dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially sales and marketing executives and skilled technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel in the future. The inability to attract and retain the necessary managerial, sales and technical personnel could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to suffer. 24 Table of Contents We may not address successfully the problems encountered in connection with any potential future acquisitions. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have little experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks and if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. During fiscal 2005 and 2006 we incurred substantial costs in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and having our independent auditor attest to that evaluation. Compliance with these requirements has been and is expected to continue to be expensive and time consuming. We have also incurred substantial costs during the first quarter of fiscal 2007 associated with our voluntary review of historical stock options and stock grants, and the resulting restatements described in this report. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. Our equity financings impose certain liquidated damages that may impair our liquidity and ability to raise capital. We will become subject to these liquidated damages if we are not able to have a post-effective amendment to our existing registration statements effective on or before February 1, 2007. In connection with our August 2006 equity financing, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the investors, pursuant to which we agreed to prepare and file a registration statement covering the resale of the shares of common stock sold in the financing as well as the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants sold in the financing. If, among other reasons, those selling stockholders are unable to re-sell their shares purchased in the financing or acquired upon exercise of their related warrants, we may be obligated to pay liquidated damages to those selling stockholders in the amount of up to 0.0165% of the gross proceeds we received in that financing per day until 180 days after the closing and up to 0.033% of the gross proceeds per day thereafter, but not to exceed a total of 20% of the purchase price paid by each investor. Similar provisions regarding the payment of liquidated damages but without a cap on damages apply to the financings we entered into in July 2005 and July 2003 (although liquidated damages are available only with respect to unexercised warrants issued in the July 2003 financing). As a result of the filing of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 past the extended December 29, 2006 due date, the effective registration statements related to the securities purchased in our 25 Table of Contents August 2006, July 2005 and July 2003 financings are not presently available for use. If the unavailability continues for more than twenty trading days following January 3, 2007, we will be obligated to pay daily liquidated damages as described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “Contractual Commitments and Commercial Commitments” below. We will not be eligible to use short-form registration statements on Form S-3 for future financings until January 2008 absent a waiver of eligibility requirements from the SEC. If we are not current in our filings with the SEC, we will face several adverse consequences. As a result of the voluntary review of our historical stock option and stock grants, the filing of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 was delayed past the extended December 29, 2006 due date. As a result, we no longer meet the eligibility requirements for Form S-3 which requires that all reports required under the Exchange Act have been filed timely for at least twelve calendar months immediately preceding the filing date. In addition to the liquidated damages provisions discussed above with respect to prior financings, these restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds. We intend to seek a waiver of this eligibility requirement from the Office of the Chief Counsel of the Department of Corporation Finance at the SEC, but there is no assurance such waiver will be granted. If we are unable to remain current in our future filings, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and we will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements or pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D, to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” Finally, we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after the delinquency occurs. If we fail to keep our filings current with the SEC our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and subsequently would trade on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets will materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at all. Stocks that trade on the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may depress the price of our common stock. As of September 30, 2006, we had outstanding options granted to our employees, directors and consultants to purchase 1,496,573 shares of our common stock, and had outstanding warrants issued to investors and others to purchase 4,164,927 shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2006, the exercise prices for the options and warrants ranged from $1.85 to $10.10 per share. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of convertible securities, options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock, and the sale of those shares in the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The potential dilution from these shares could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain equity financing. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue additional preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. 26 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • developments concerning our sound reproduction technologies; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in the consumer electronics market; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • changes in personnel within our company; and • other events or factors and general economic and market conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 