Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our company. You should consider these matters in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Our results of operations or financial condition could be seriously harmed, and the trading price of our common stock may decline due to any of these or other risks. 9 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses and anticipate continued losses in fiscal 2009. At September 30, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $73,861,411. We need to generate additional revenue to be profitable in future periods. Failure to achieve profitability, or maintain profitability if achieved, may require us to raise additional funding which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our common stock. We may need additional capital for growth. We may need additional capital to support our growth. We may generate a portion or all of these funds from operations. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include: • failure of sales from government, military and commercial markets to meet planned projections; • government spending levels impacting the sale of our products; • our ability to control spending; • introduction of new competing technologies; • product mix and effect on margins; and • acceptance of our existing and future products in existing and new markets. Should we require additional funds, general market conditions or the then-current market price of our common stock may not support capital raising transactions and any such financing may require advance approval of our stockholders under the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Our ability to obtain financing is further constrained by the current economic conditions. The recent credit crisis and other related trends affecting the capital markets have caused significant reductions in capital availability. Many lenders and institutional investors have ceased funding even the most credit-worthy entities. In addition, we may be required to reduce costs, including the scaling back of research and development into new products, which could have a negative impact on our ability to compete and to innovate. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock (assuming we are able to obtain additional financing), the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted. Two customers accounted for 27% of our total revenues for fiscal year 2008. We expect to continue to be dependent on a limited number of customers. Two customers accounted for 17% and 10% of total revenues for the fiscal year 2008, respectively. Historically our revenues have been dependent upon a limited number of customers. We do not have long term agreements with these or other significant customers, and our customers have the right to cease doing business with us at any time. No assurance can be given that these or other customers will continue to do business with us or that they will maintain their historical levels of business. If our relationship with any material customer were to cease, then our revenues would decline and negatively impact our results of operations. Any such decline could result in us increasing our net losses and accumulated deficit and a need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. If our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Disruption and fluctuations in financial and currency markets could have a negative effect on our business. As has been widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and 10 Table of Contents declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to operate our business, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which can then lead to challenges in the operation of our business. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of commercial customers to finance purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products as well as create supplier disruptions. Economic developments could also reduce future government spending on our products. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition. We purchase a number of key components and subassemblies from foreign suppliers. Consequently, we are subject to the impact economic conditions can have on such suppliers and subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Increases in our cost of purchasing these items could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. We must expand our customer base in order to grow our business. To grow our business, we must fulfill orders from our existing customers, obtain additional orders from our existing customers, develop relationships with new customers and obtain and fulfill orders from new customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our customer base. Further, even if we do obtain new customers, we cannot guarantee that those customers will purchase from us enough quantities of our product or at product prices that will enable us to recover our costs in acquiring those customers and fulfilling those orders. Whether we will be able to sell more of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to manufacture reliable products that have the features that are required by our customers; • our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and to develop relationships with new customers that will lead to additional orders for our products; • our ability to develop and expand new markets for directed sound products; and • our ability to develop international product distribution directly or through strategic partners. The growth of our LRAD product revenues is materially dependent on acceptance of our products by government, military and developing force protection and emergency response agencies. If these agencies do not purchase our LRAD products, our revenues will be adversely affected. Although our LRAD products are designed for use by both government and commercial customers, the products have, to date, been predominantly sold for government use. Our products have not yet been widely accepted in the large government and military market that includes many prospective customers. Furthermore, the force protection and emergency response market is itself an emerging market that is changing rapidly. If our LRAD products are not widely accepted by the government, military and the developing force protection and emergency response markets, we may not be able to identify other markets, and we may fail to achieve our sales projections. Perceptions that long range hailing devices are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner may hurt sales of our LRAD products which could cause our revenues to decline. Potential customers for our LRAD products, including government, military and force protection and emergency response agencies, may be influenced by claims or perceptions that long range hailing devices are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner or as a weapon. These claims or perceptions could cause our product sales to decline or possibly subject the sale of these products to stricter government regulations covering the sale of weapons. In addition, if governmental agencies determine that our products could be classified as a weapon, 11 Table of Contents our sales of these products could be negatively impacted by longer sales cycle. These factors could reduce future revenues, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a few core product categories. We are dependent on a small number of core product categories to generate a significant proportion of our revenues. No assurance can be given that these or other products will continue to have consumer acceptance or that they will maintain their historical levels of sales. The loss of one or more of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are continually introducing new or improved products and technologies. If commercially successful products are not produced in a timely manner, we may be unprofitable or forced to cease operations. Our LRAD, HSS, SoundSaber and SoundVector technologies have had only limited market acceptance and are still being improved. Commercially viable sound technology systems may not be successfully and timely produced by us due to the inherent risks of technology development, new product introduction, limitations on financing, manufacturing problems, competition, obsolescence, loss of key technical personnel and other factors. Revenues from our sound products have been limited to date and we cannot guarantee significant revenues in the future. The development and introduction of our HSS product took longer than anticipated by management and the introduction of future products, if any, could also be subject to delays. Customers may not accept our current products and may elect to purchase products from competitors. We experienced quality control problems with some of our initial commercial HSS units, and we may not be able to resolve similar problems in a timely and cost effective manner. Products employing our sound technology may not achieve market acceptance. Our various sound projects are high risk in nature, and unanticipated technical obstacles can arise at any time and result in lengthy and costly delays or result in a determination that further exploitation is unfeasible. If we do not successfully exploit our technology, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be adversely affected. We may incur significant and unpredictable warranty costs. Our products are substantially different from proven, mass produced sound transducer designs and are often employed in harsh environments. We may incur substantial and unpredictable warranty costs from post-production product or component failures. We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase, depending on the product. At September 30, 2008, we had a warranty reserve of $235,174. In prior years, we recorded substantial warranty reserves for early versions of our HSS products and have limited history to predict future warranty costs. Future warranty costs could further adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We could incur additional charges for excess and obsolete inventory. Due to rapidly changing technology, and uneven customer demand, product cycles tend to be short and the value of our inventory may be adversely affected by changes in technology that affect our ability to sell the products in our inventory. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which in turn can adversely affect cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new product introductions. We currently have established reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory of approximately $1.6 million. The reserves we have established for potential losses due to obsolete inventory may, however, prove to be inadequate and may give rise to additional charges for obsolete or excess inventory. 12 Table of Contents We do not have the ability to accurately predict future operating results. Our quarterly and annual revenues are likely to fluctuate significantly due to many factors, any of which could result in our failure to achieve our revenue expectations. We expect our proprietary sound reproduction products and technologies will be the source of substantially all of our future revenues. Revenues from these products and technologies are expected to vary significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Any one or more of the factors listed below or other factors could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue expectations. These factors include: • our ability to develop and supply sound reproduction components to customers, distributors or OEMs or to license our technologies; • market acceptance of and changes in demand for our products or products of our customers; • gains or losses of significant customers, distributors or strategic relationships; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components for our products and OEM products; • fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields and related manufacturing costs; • the timing of new technological advances, product announcements or introductions by us, by OEMs or licensees and by our competitors; • product obsolescence and the management of product transitions and inventory; • unpredictable warranty costs associated with new product models; • production delays by customers, distributors, OEMs or by us or our suppliers; • seasonal fluctuations in sales; • the conditions of other industries, such as military and commercial industries, into which our technologies may be licensed; • general consumer electronics industry conditions, including changes in demand and associated effects on inventory and inventory practices; • general economic conditions that could affect the timing of customer orders and capital spending and result in order cancellations or rescheduling; and • general political conditions in this country and in various other parts of the world that could affect spending for the products that we offer. Some or all of these factors could adversely affect demand for our products or technologies, and therefore adversely affect our future operating results. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to rapidly adjust spending to compensate for any unexpected sales or license revenue shortfalls, which could harm our quarterly operating results. We do not have the ability to predict future operating results with any certainty. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. Technological competition from other and longer established electronic and loudspeaker manufacturers is significant and expected to increase. Most of the companies with which we expect to compete have substantially 13 Table of Contents greater capital resources, research and development staffs, marketing and distribution programs and facilities, and many of them have substantially greater experience in the production and marketing of products. In addition, one or more of our competitors may have developed or may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any of ours, rendering our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitive position will be seriously damaged if we cannot obtain patent protection for important differentiating aspects of our products or otherwise protect intellectual property rights in our technology. We rely on a combination of contracts and trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to independently develop competing technologies, or the agreements we enter into may not be enforceable. Our success, in part, depends on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology, particularly our patents. There is no guarantee any patent will issue on any patent application that we have filed or may file. Claims allowed from existing or pending patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to protect the economic value of our technologies. Further, any patent that we may obtain will expire, and it is possible that it may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we do not secure and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, our competitive position will be significantly harmed. A competitor may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our technology. For example, patent protection on our LRAD products is limited, and we may not be able to prevent others from introducing products with similar functionality. If this happens, any patent that we may obtain may not provide protection and our competitive position could be significantly harmed. As we expand our product line or develop new uses for our products, these products or uses may be outside the protection provided by our current patent applications and other intellectual property rights. In addition, if we develop new products or enhancements to existing products we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain patents to protect them. Even if we do receive patents for our existing or new products, these patents may not provide meaningful protection. In some countries outside of the United States where our products can be sold or licensed, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for violations of patents. As a result, protecting intellectual property in these countries is difficult and our competitors may successfully sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties in the future for infringement of our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, our operating results could suffer and our financial condition could be harmed. We may be faced with legal challenges related to our products, including that our products infringe third parties’ intellectual property rights of others. These challenges could cause us to incur significant litigation or licensing expenses or could prohibit us from producing or marketing some or all of our products entirely. Other companies and our competitors may currently own or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that might prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. Although we do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, there can be no assurance that infringement or other legal claims will not be asserted against us or that any such claims will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions. Regardless of their validity or success, such claims may result in protracted and costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability 14 Table of Contents to license the infringed technology, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. An adverse result from intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign products or services that incorporate the disputed technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we could face substantial costs and shipment delays and our business could be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, it is possible that our customers or end users may seek indemnity from us in the event that our products are found or alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claim for indemnity could result in substantial expenses to us that could harm our operating results. Our HSS technology is subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, which could lead to unanticipated expense or litigation. Our HSS sound technology emits ultrasonic vibrations, and as such is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. In the event of certain unanticipated defects in an HSS product, a customer or we may be required to comply with FDA requirements (1) to provide written notification of the defect to: the FDA; dealers or distributors to whom the product was delivered; and purchasers of the product (and any reasonably ascertainable subsequent transferees), and (2) to repair, replace, or refund to the purchaser the cost of the product. This could lead to unanticipated expense, and possible product liability litigation against a customer or us. Any regulatory impediment to full commercialization of our HSS technology, or any of our other technologies, could adversely affect our results of operations. We may face personal injury and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Some of our products are capable of sufficient acoustic output to cause damage to human hearing or human health if used improperly, such as when the products are used at close ranges or for long periods of exposure. A person injured in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. Our product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. Product liability insurance may also become too costly for us or may become unavailable for us in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Significant litigation could also result in negative publicity and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our international operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. We sell our products worldwide. The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our customers and our suppliers. These risks include: • changes in tariff regulations; • political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; 15 Table of Contents • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; • lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; • import and export control and licensing requirements; • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, by us or key subcontractors; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the U.S.; and • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. These and other risks may preclude or curtail international sales or increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products. Failure to comply with U.S. and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to international business such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. and foreign governments. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation in areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead, cadmium and other substances. We do not expect that the impact of these environmental laws and other similar legislation adopted in the U.S. and other countries will have a substantial unfavorable impact on our business. However the costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. Errors or defects contained in our products, failure to comply with applicable safety standards or a product recall could result in delayed shipments or rejection of our products, damage to our reputation and expose us to regulatory or other legal action. Any defects or errors in the operation of our products may result in delays in their introduction. In addition, errors or defects may be uncovered after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products by our customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims, any of which could harm our business. Third parties could sustain injuries from our products, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from such injuries. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage. We may also be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Because we are a small company, a product recall would be particularly harmful to us because we have limited financial and administrative resources to effectively manage a product recall and it would detract management’s attention from implementing our core business strategies. A significant product defect or product recall could materially and adversely affect our brand image, causing a decline in our sales, and could reduce or deplete our financial resources. We rely on outside manufacturers and suppliers to provide a large number of components and sub-assemblies incorporated in our products. Our products have a large number of components and sub-assemblies produced by outside suppliers. In addition, for certain of these items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. In particular, we depend on our HSS 16 Table of Contents piezo-film supplier to provide materials used in our proprietary HSS emitters and we rely on one supplier of compression drivers for our LRAD products. If shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with suppliers, then our production schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Although we assemble our products internally, we have some sub-assemblers and components produced by third-party manufacturers. We may be required to outsource manufacturing if sales of our products increase significantly. We have historically used a single third-party contract manufacturer to manufacture for certain sub-assemblies, and we expect to continue to use a single manufacturer in the future until product volume grows substantially. We may be unable to obtain acceptable manufacturing sources on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time we may change manufacturers and any new manufacturer engaged by us may not perform as expected. An extended interruption in the supply of our products could result in a substantial loss of sales. Furthermore, any actual or perceived degradation of product quality as a result of our reliance on third-party manufacturers may have an adverse effect on sales or result in increased warranty costs, product returns and buybacks. Failure to maintain quality manufacturing could reduce future revenues, adversely affecting financial condition and results of operations. We derive revenue from government contracts and subcontracts, which are often non-standard, may involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. Our sales to government customers have involved and are expected in the future to involve providing products and services under contracts or subcontracts with U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. Obtaining contracts and subcontracts from government agencies is challenging, and contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: • include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; • be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political influence; • contain onerous procurement procedures; and • be subject to cancellation if government funding becomes unavailable. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. We have current government contracts and our future growth is dependent, in large part, on continued sales to U.S. and international governments and businesses who sell to governments. In fiscal 2008, direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government accounted for approximately 50% of our total net sales. Changes in defense spending could have an adverse effect on our current and future revenues. Sales of our product to U.S. government agencies and organizations is subject to the overall U.S. government budget and congressional appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. The recent election and changes in political leadership could affect future U.S. Department of Defense’s military initiatives and homeland security spending. We can’t be assured that the military’s interest in communication devices to minimize unnecessary force will continue or will provide future growth opportunities for our business. 17 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on the performance of our executive team, and the cooperation, performance and retention of our executive officers and key employees. Over the past few years, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our current executive team including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of one or several key employees could seriously harm our business. We are also dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially sales and marketing executives and skilled technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel in the future. The inability to attract and retain the necessary managerial, sales and technical personnel could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to suffer. We may not address successfully the problems encountered in connection with any potential future acquisitions. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have little experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks and if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any systems of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC require us to include in our Form 10-K a report by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an 18 Table of Contents assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the respective fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While our management has concluded that we did not have any material weaknesses as of September 30, 2008, it is possible that material weaknesses will be identified in the future. In addition, components of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of those internal controls, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on its stock price. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. During fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007, we incurred substantial costs in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and having our independent auditor attest to that evaluation. Compliance with these requirements has been and is expected to continue to be expensive and time consuming. We also incurred substantial costs during the first quarter of fiscal 2007 associated with a voluntary review of historical stock options and stock grants, and the resulting restatements described in our 2006 annual report. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. Our equity financings impose certain liquidated damages that may impair our liquidity. In connection with our August 2006 and July 2005 equity financings, we entered into registration rights agreements with the investors, pursuant to which we agreed to prepare and file a registration statement covering the resale of the shares of common stock sold in the financing as well as the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants sold in the financing. If the effective registration statements relating to these financings are unavailable for any reason, including any failure to maintain current and timely SEC filings, and selling stockholders are unable to re-sell their shares purchased in the financings or acquired upon exercise of related warrants, we could be obligated to pay substantial daily liquidated damages that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. Nasdaq’s continued listing standards for our common stock require, among other things, that (i) we maintain a closing bid price for our common stock of at least $1.00, and (ii) we maintain: (A) stockholders’ equity of $2.5 19 Table of Contents million; (B) market value of listed securities of $35 million; or (C) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. In October 2008, we were notified by Nasdaq that we failed to meet the listing standards by failing to maintain a bid price of $1.00 and that we had until March 31, 2009 to regain compliance. Failure to satisfy the Nasdaq continued listing standards could lead to a delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq. On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced that it had temporarily suspended its minimum bid price and market value of public float requirements for continued listing through January 16, 2009. As a result of this suspension, Nasdaq subsequently notified us that our deadline for regaining compliance has been extended to July 6, 2009. Nasdaq adopted this measure to help companies remain listed in view of the extraordinary market conditions following the recent turmoil in the global economy and stock markets. Under the temporary relief provided by the new rules, companies will not be cited for bid price or market value of public float deficiencies. Nevertheless, our failure to satisfy other continued listing requirements could lead to the receipt of a deficiency notice from Nasdaq and ultimately to a delisting from trading of our common stock. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, among other things, this could result in a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with Nasdaq and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities, greater difficulty in obtaining financing and breaches of certain contractual obligations. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may depress the price of our common stock. As of September 30, 2008, we had outstanding options granted to our employees, directors and consultants to purchase 3,226,200 shares of our common stock, and had outstanding warrants issued to investors and others to purchase 2,936,693 shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2008, the exercise prices for the options and warrants ranged from $1.31 to $9.48 per share. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of convertible securities, options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock, and the sale of those shares in the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The potential dilution from these shares could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain equity financing. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of your common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue additional preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. Our stock price is volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • developments concerning our sound reproduction technologies; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in the consumer electronics market; 20 Table of Contents • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • changes in personnel within our company; and • other events or factors and general economic and market conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 