ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain members. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to attract and maintain membership levels at our Clubs, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts, or that the membership levels at one or more of our Clubs will not decline. There are numerous factors that could lead to a decline in membership levels or that could prevent us from increasing our membership at newer Clubs, including the public image of the Clubs, the ability of the Clubs to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas in which the Clubs are located, the public's interest in Clubs and general economic conditions. In addition, from time to time we may close a Club and attempt to move members of such Club to a different Club or may have to temporarily relocate members if a Club is closed for remodeling or due to fire, earthquake or other casualty. In such cases, our inability to successfully transfer and retain members will lead to an overall membership decline. Additionally, conditions in the markets in which we operate may limit our ability to maintain or increase membership pricing without a material loss in membership. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that the Clubs' membership levels will be adequate to maintain or permit the expansion of their operations. The sports and fitness industry is highly competitive and some of our competitors may have advantages over us. The sports and fitness industry is highly competitive. Despite recent consolidation activities, the industry remains highly fragmented. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial and operating resources than we do. In addition, a number of individual and regional operators compete with us throughout our existing markets. These competitors compete with us both for members and for employees. We also compete with recreational facilities established by governments and businesses, the YMCA and YWCA, country clubs and weight-reducing salons, as well as products and services that can be used in the home. Other entertainment and retail businesses also compete with us for the discretionary income of our target market. We believe that additional sports and fitness competitors will emerge in the future some of which may be larger and have greater financial and operating resources than us. There can be no assurance that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 We must hire and retain qualified personnel. We are dependent upon the available labor pool of semi and unskilled employees. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as a minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. There can be no assurance that labor costs will not increase. Any increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our key management leaves the Company, it could have an adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon the efforts and skills of our executive officers, who have substantial experience in the sports and fitness club industry. The loss of one or more of such officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the development and expansion of the Company's business will require additional experienced management and operations personnel. No assurance can be given that we will be able to hire or retain such employees. We have significant debt levels that would adversely affect our financial health. After the sale of five of our sports and fitness Clubs in January 2006, we continue to have approximately $80.0 million of long-term debt that is secured by our real estate in Los Angeles and Orange County, California. Our debt levels could contribute to any of the following: o A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be needed to pay our prinicipal and interest obligations, leaving less cash for capital expansion or to return to shareholders. o A decrease in our cash flows from operations could make it more difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to sell assets or raise additional equity. o Our debt levels may make it more difficult to secure additional long-term debt if we elected to finance any future expansions with debt. o Our loan agreements contain provisions that we must comply with or we could be declared in default of the agreements. o We may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. o Our two loans have maturity dates in 2008 and 2016 at which time we will be required to refinance a significant portion of the current debt amount. If we are unable to do so, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we develop new Clubs their success is dependent on our ability to locate suitable sites, meet construction schedules and budgets and negotiate favorable leases or management agreements. We are currently pursuing several potential new Club sites. Due to our current debt levels and the significant amount of capital required to construct a new facility, we expect any new Clubs would be structured as joint ventures, partnership agreements or management agreements. Our ability to successfully develop new Clubs is dependent upon the following: o Our ability to find development partners, o Our ability to locate suitable sites for development, o Our ability to finance any capital we would be required to invest, 9 o Our ability to attract members to a newly developed Club, which will depend upon how receptive potential members are to our brand, policies and pricing, o Our ability to negotiate satisafactory leases and other contracts, and o Our ability to meet construction schedules and budgets. Expanding via partnership, joint ventures or management agreements present certain inherent risks. We have expressed our interest in pursuing partnership, joint ventures and management agreements to expand in the future. Partnership, joint ventures and management agreements may under certain circumstances, present certain risks to us including the possibility that our partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt and that such partners or co-venturers might have economic or other business interests or objectives that are inconsistent with our interests or objectives. Such partners or co-venturers may also be in a position to take actions contrary to our interests and objectives and cause delays or impasses which may prevent us from implementing business decisions with respect to the partnerships and joint ventures. These risks are heightened in Clubs where partners or owners may, under certain circumstances, have the right to assert control over the day-to-day operations of the Clubs. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Asset Purchase Agreement with Millennium prevents us from operating in certain markets. Until January 2011, we agreed not to own, manage or operate any sports and fitness facilities other than The Sports Club/LA - New York at Rockefeller Center in any of Millennium's territories. Those territories include all of the United States located East of the Mississippi River and several counties located in the San Francisco area. Therefore, without a waiver of that condition by Millennium we will be unable to consider any expansion opportunities in these geographical areas. We are subject to various regulatory requirements that we can not control. Our operations and business practices are subject to regulation at federal, state and, in some cases, local levels. General rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, and of state and local consumer protection agencies, and state statutes apply to our advertising, sales and other trade practices, including the sale of memberships and the financing and collection of membership fees. Although we are not aware of any proposed material changes in any such statutes, rules or regulations, any changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our voting control is concentrated in a small shareholder base. Our principal shareholders, officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 73.1% of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock and 81.4% of the voting stock after consideration of the voting rights of our Preferred Stock. As a result, such persons, acting together, have control over all matters requiring shareholder approval. We have engaged in numerous related party transactions and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest. Over the last few years the Company has entered into several related party transactions. (These transactions are disclosed in Item 13 of this Form 10-K). All such transactions were approved by our independent Board of Directors who believed they were in our best interest. Transactions of this nature present the possibility of a conflict of interest whereby the other party may advance its economic or business interests or objectives which may conflict with or be contrary to our best interest. Any such conflit could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. 10 Our Common Stock is very thinly traded. A relatively small amount of our Common Stock is not owned by our four major stockholders. As a result, there is very limited daily trading in our Common Stock. This may make it difficult for a current stockholder to dispose of the stock they currently own or for a new stockholder to acquire shares of Common Stock. Also, the market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance or financial condition. Our Preferred Stockholders have rights that are senior to our Common Stockholders. We currently have outstanding $24.0 million of Preferred Stock, some of which is convertible into shares of Common Stock at the election of the holder. At December 31, 2005, dividends of $6.4 million have accrued on such stock and are payable to the stockholders. The Preferred Stockholders have rights that are senior to our Common Stockholders and are entitled to convert their Preferred Shares into Common Stock or redeem their Preferred Stock and receive all accumulated dividends prior to any distribution to our Common Stockholders. Our Clubs are concentrated in two geographic areas and therefore are subject to factors that impact the local economics, including natural or man made disasters. We currently operate three Clubs in Southern California and one in New York City and thus our operating results are susceptible to events in those areas, including disasters such as earthquakes or acts of terrorism. All of the Clubs maintain comprehensive casualty, liability and business interruption insurance and all Clubs located in California maintain earthquake insurance. We believe our insurance coverage is in accordance with industry standards. There are, however, certain types of losses which may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any insurance proceeds will adequately compensate us for all economic consequences of any loss. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our invested capital in a particular Club or Clubs and the anticipated profits from such Club or Clubs. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to claims related to health or safety risks at our Clubs. Use of our Clubs poses some potential health risks to members or guests through exertion and use of our services and facilities including exercise equipment. There can be no assurance that a claim against us for death or an injury suffered by members or their guests while exercising at a Club will not be asserted or that we would be able to successfully defend any claim that might be asserted. We currently maintain general liability coverage; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 