Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities PART II Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures iv ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview For over 25 years, telecommunications providers, public safety organizations and government agencies have turned to Intrado Inc. for their emergency communications needs. A global provider of integrated data and telecommunications solutions, we provide the core of the United States’ 9-1-1 infrastructure and a wide range of safety and mobility offerings. Our primary business is the support of the nation’s 9-1-1 emergency response infrastructure for wireline, wireless and Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, networks. The data we manage enables a 9-1-1 call to be routed to the appropriate public safety answering point, or PSAP. We also provide the PSAP with callback data and the caller’s location. This critical information enables public safety organizations to respond to calls quickly and efficiently. In addition, our infrastructure enables telecommunications carriers to meet state and federal regulatory mandates. Since we launched our 9-1-1 data management services in 1994, our 9-1-1 data integrity infrastructure has provided robust and reliable service to our telecommunications and public safety customers. Our customers include all of the major incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs, 41 competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, 32 VoIP providers, 60 wireless service providers, and a variety of state, local and federal government agencies. We directly manage more than 104 million wireline subscriber data records and support another 130 million wireline records under customer management with Intrado-provided licensed software. In wireless, we provide 9-1-1 infrastructure and deployment services that support nearly 100 million subscribers in the United States. During 2005, we continued to strengthen and expand our 9-1-1 leadership position in our two primary business units: wireline and wireless. In our wireline business, we renewed or extended certain long-term contracts with major ILECs and acquired new CLEC and VoIP customers. We continued to expand our wireless business as we added new customers and continued service deployments that enable wireless carriers to comply with Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, Phase I and Phase II mandates. We provide a location-positioning platform to support both Phase I and Phase II wireless deployments. Our internally-developed technology includes a Mobile Positioning Center, or MPC, and a Gateway Mobile Location Center, or GMLC. The MPC and GMLC and the Intrado Wireless Gateway are essential components for the proper routing and processing of wireless emergency calls. The platform is also used for our VoIP solutions and Intrado® Enhanced Emergency Services. We also operate IntelliCast® Target Notification that enables city, state or federal governments to geographically target and notify individuals of emergencies. In 2005, we continued to invest in the Intelligent Emergency NetworkTM, or IEN, which will enable the next generation of emergency communications services. IEN is a key element of our strategy to expand our existing 9-1-1 services business. In 2005, we also continued global expansion plans with the formation of a joint venture in China and a new subsidiary in Singapore. bmd wireless AG, or bmd, in Switzerland continues to provide a suite of commercial services and access to important carrier relationships in Europe, and its capabilities and expertise have now been fully integrated into our operations. We continue to maintain ISO 9001 certification, which we first achieved in December 2001 and is an integral part of our corporate compliance program. This certification demonstrates our strong commitment to the quality and continuous improvement of our products, services and internal processes in both domestic and international markets. We maintain a website with the address www.intrado.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report. Through our website, we make available all of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We were founded and incorporated in July 1979 in Colorado under the name Systems Concepts of Colorado, Inc. and reincorporated in September 1993 in Delaware under the name SCC Communications Corp. We 1 completed our initial public offering in June 1998. We acquired Lucent Public Safety Systems, or LPSS, in May 2001, after which we changed our name to Intrado Inc. On January 29, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with West Corporation, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska. Under the terms of the agreement, West Corporation agreed to acquire all of the outstanding Intrado common stock for a purchase price of $26.00 per share. If our stockholders approve the merger at a meeting expected to be held during the second quarter of 2006, we will become a wholly owned subsidiary of West Corporation. Our corporate offices are located at 1601 Dry Creek Drive, Longmont, Colorado, and our telephone number is (720) 494-5800. Industry Background Wireline Most jurisdictions in the United States provide wireline Enhanced 9-1-1, or E9-1-1, which automatically allows the PSAP to receive the caller’s street address and callback telephone number when a 9-1-1 call is made. When a caller dials 9-1-1, the call is routed through the network and the 9-1-1 data server is queried. This data server associates the caller’s telephone number with the caller’s location and identifies the appropriate primary and secondary PSAP. The data in the 9-1-1 database must be constantly updated to reflect both changes to telephone service and PSAP boundaries, such as the addition of a street, the building of a new fire or police station, or city annexations of new territory. Delivery of 9-1-1 service requires coordination of data from multiple sources, review and processing of the data, resolution of data errors and delivery of data into mission-critical data servers. All local exchange carriers currently are required to provide wireline 9-1-1 service. During 2005, the use of VoIP, a technology that enables voice traffic to be carried over an Internet Protocol-based network, grew significantly. We expect this trend to continue. In a VoIP call, voice is broken into packets at the transmitting end device and then reassembled at the receiving end device. The location of the VoIP caller is not necessarily fixed, presenting a challenge related to the handling and routing of emergency calls. Regulators, industry trade groups, carriers and suppliers are working together to address this issue. In May 2005, the FCC issued a ruling making E9-1-1 access mandatory for interconnected VoIP providers who offer fixed and nomadic services. This ruling requires VoIP providers to expeditiously develop a solution to deliver VoIP placed 9-1-1 calls directly into the emergency services network and to provide the caller’s telephone number and address location in areas where E9-1-1 is available. The deadline for complying with this ruling was November 28, 2005. Wireless Wireless telecommunications created significant challenges for E9-1-1 service delivery because the caller’s location is not fixed. Recognizing the public safety need for improved wireless E9-1-1 services, the FCC issued an order in June 1996 mandating implementation of wireless E9-1-1 service in two phases. Phase I requires wireless carriers to provide the PSAP with the caller’s telephone number and the location of the cell sector from which the call originated. Phase I also stipulates that the emergency call be routed to an assigned PSAP that is nearest to the caller. Since April 1998, wireless service providers have been required to comply with the Phase I mandate within six months of a valid PSAP request. Phase II requires carriers to locate wireless 9-1-1 callers within even more precise location parameters, as specified by the FCC. In addition to the FCC’s mandate, wireless service providers are motivated to implement wireless E9-1-1 services because of increasing pressure from public safety agencies. In addition, the technology required for Phase II service can also be used by wireless carriers to provide additional location-based services to their customers. These services include location-based traffic reporting, emergency roadside assistance, location-based dispatch and other services. 2 Other Opportunities New technologies have increased the complexities and opportunities related to public safety services. The expansion of the Internet and the widespread use of wireless Internet devices introduce multiple new points of connectivity and consumer interactivity with emergency services providers. These technologies also create the potential for enhanced public safety coordination and support. For example, telematics devices, automobile communication devices that are used for location-based services such as emergency roadside assistance, are entering the market at a rapid pace. The European Union’s, or EU’s, initiative to implement location information for emergency services through their common emergency number, 1-1-2, was launched via the EU directive issued in July 2003. Based on a formal review in 2005 of the status of 1-1-2 implementations, the EU will establish an expert group of officials from the 25 member states to seek practical solutions to the continuing challenges facing 1-1-2 implementations. Our Strategy Our objective is to expand our leadership position in emergency communications systems while pursuing additional opportunities that build upon our core competencies. Key elements of our strategy include: Maintain and extend our leadership in the wireline 9-1-1 data management market. In wireline, our systems manage more than 234 million subscriber data records. We are seeking to add new CLEC and VoIP customers, increase the number of data records under management, expand our existing 9-1-1 services and support the evolving telecommunications infrastructure. In particular, we intend to continue to play a lead role in the evolving VoIP market and plan to offer more services to these carriers as the industry better defines the E9-1-1 solution for Internet Telephony. Retain and grow our existing wireless 9-1-1-customer base. We have contracts to provide Phase I wireless 9-1-1 services to 60 wireless customers. There is a significant opportunity to increase our Phase I wireless 9-1-1 penetration by deploying service to a larger portion of the subscribers we have under contract and signing contracts with additional wireless service providers. We also have been deploying Phase II wireless services since late 2001. The significant growth in the number of wireless telephone users, wireless carrier consolidation and the increased demand for enhanced wireless service offerings present opportunities for growth in our wireless 9-1-1 services. Continue development and roll out of IEN. As the leader in 9-1-1 infrastructure, systems and services, we are well positioned to deliver the next generation of emergency communications services. The IEN initiatives will encompass secure Internet Protocol, or IP, networking and allow the industry to move away from relying solely on outdated analog technologies. We are designing and building the next generation of 9-1-1 network infrastructure, in which we plan to incorporate the latest technologies such as IP and message switching. We intend to use our expertise in providing highly accurate 9-1-1 data management services over the past two decades to ensure that the same high standards are applied to future emergency management solutions. We have been careful to develop IEN with significant input from many stakeholders in this important venture: our wireline and wireless customers, the public safety community, hardware suppliers and regulators. We believe this provides a solid foundation for the introduction and acceptance of IEN over the coming years. As new products and services are introduced to carriers, consumers and the public safety community, we believe we have the potential to both expand and garner a larger portion of the funding that is currently available for emergency services. Extend Our Emergency Communications Leadership Beyond North America. We continue to gain visibility into the European emergency communications and notification market. We are actively involved with the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, or ETSI, in defining requirements for Enhanced 1-1-2, or E1-1-2, deployment. In addition, we have been active with the European Emergency Number Association, or EENA, in advancing the development and implementation of E1-1-2. We are engaged in discussions with key European and Asian carriers, government organizations and potential deployment partners. 3 Focus on Government Opportunities. In 2005, we continued to focus attention in the federal, state and local government markets through our Government Markets Group. This group acts as a cross business-unit marketing and sales resource in identifying, analyzing and pursuing potential government market opportunities and developing and executing cohesive product portfolio plans, promotional programs and distribution strategies. The Government Markets Group focuses on the sale of Intrado’s products and services as well as partner solutions, consulting, and system integration services to prospective public safety government buyers. Intrado Products and Services We provide a wide range of products and services for the telecommunications, public safety and commercial markets. Our key products are listed below. Wireline Offerings Intrado® Data Management Services and Systems We provide wireline 9-1-1 solutions on both service-based and license-based models. In the service model, we house and maintain the customer’s data; and the customer outsources virtually all of its 9-1-1 data management operations, including system activation, routine data administration, and event transaction processing and performance management. Our services are secure, reliable and easily interface with an individual carrier’s proprietary or open systems. In the license model, we provide licensed software applications bundled with systems hardware that allows carriers to manage the data, at their own facilities, with their own personnel. 9-1-1 Data Management Services—Outsourced Model Customers: ILECs, CLECs, Independent Operating Companies (IOCs), State and Local Governments, State of Texas, VoIP carriers. Data Management Services ensure that hundreds of millions of complex records are current, accurate and available on demand. These services encompass the processes that enable a 9-1-1 call to be routed to the appropriate PSAP along with accurate and timely information about the caller’s identity, callback number and location. We receive daily service order updates from our telecommunications carrier customers, which reflect changes to subscriber data. We also receive updates to boundary and routing data needed to route 9-1-1 calls to the appropriate PSAP. We screen this data for accuracy and analyze and resolve data discrepancies. Screened data is then inserted into the 9-1-1 databases. When a 9-1-1 call occurs, it is routed to the 9-1-1 voice switch. The call is then routed to the appropriate PSAP, which queries our database, and the database then sends the caller’s location and callback number to the PSAP. Our CLEC data management services provide a single point of contact to process and format 9-1-1 data for CLECs and independent telephone companies. These entities may be located in multiple communities that have diverse requirements for delivery of 9-1-1 information. CLECs and independent telephone companies electronically transmit subscriber information to us. We then reformat the data to comply with the destination community’s local standards, test for detectable errors and deliver the data to the 9-1-1 data systems serving that community. These data systems may be operated by us or by a carrier that does not use our services or products. Our VoIP services, including V9-1-1® Mobility Services, enable VoIP providers to support emergency calls over their VoIP networks by providing a VoIP call interface to the Public Switched Telephone Network and call routing and call delivery to the appropriate PSAP. Our proven solution helps VoIP service providers comply with regulatory mandates by enabling a comprehensive routing and call delivery solution for VoIP 9-1-1 calls. In addition to call delivery capability through our network, our real-time provisioning system performs geo-coding , data storage and file maintenance of our customers subscriber data to ensure that calls received by us can be delivered via our network to the appropriate selective router for 9-1-1 call termination. The information delivered to the PSAP will be consistent with current and existing wireline 9-1-1 data delivery, meaning a validated Master Street Address Guide, or MSAG, and the call back number of the VoIP 9-1-1 caller will be displayed. 4 The individual components of our Data Management Services include the following: Systems Preparation and Administration. Collect, organize and analyze the data necessary to prepare our systems, including collecting information on PSAP jurisdictional boundaries, performing a full inventory of addresses located in an area and loading the subscriber information. Routine Data Administration. Receive and process daily service order updates from telecommunications carriers and periodic boundary updates from PSAPs. The information received is verified and then distributed throughout our network of geographically diverse servers. Event Transaction Processing. Manage requests for information and routing for 9-1-1 calls. Performance Management. Provide performance metrics on service operations including response time, systems availability, data accuracy and error resolution intervals. Mapping Services. Document, review and analyze call routing boundaries and specific address information for optimal management of 9-1-1 call records. We also assist in system preparation and quality control programs to ensure that geographical information is current. Enhancements to 9-1-1 Data Management Services. We also offer the following enhancements to 9-1-1 Data Management Services: • 9-1-1Net® is a web-based tool for maintaining the MSAG and Automated Location Identification, or ALI, databases. Using 9-1-1Net®, users can view live address routing rules, send address updates, review inbound call load, error statistics and ALI discrepancy reports and receive product updates. • V9-1-1® Level of Service is a tool that allows VoIP providers to verify their end subscriber’s level of 9-1-1 emergency service during the initial registration of their calling location. • Private Switch/ALI, or PS/ALI, allows PBX system managers to create and transmit appropriate data records that identify a caller’s precise extension location within a facility. • Address Verification Manager is a web-based application linking Intrado to a local exchange carrier. Address Verification Manager facilitates automated synchronization between the Street Address Guide, or SAG, and MSAG databases and provides a consistent method for resolving address discrepancies. • e-Bonding provides full end-to-end electronic confirmation of each E9-1-1 transaction. e-Bonding reports help customers confirm records processed by carriers even when Intrado is not the designated ALI database manager. • Advanced Error Correction identifies, investigates and resolves specific records that error at the E9-1-1 Service Provider. 9-1-1 Data Management Systems—Licensed Model Customers: ILECs, PSAPs Data Management Systems include both hardware and software offerings. Our software offerings within Data Management Systems include DBMS and ALISA. DBMS is a tool for processing service orders, maintaining MSAG records and validating service orders. 5 ALISA is a database that uses automated number identification to recognize the number of the person calling and associate this number with an address and emergency service number, or ESN, in the database. The ESN tells the PSAP the corresponding police, fire, or emergency medical dispatcher associated with the telephone number and address. Add-on Data Management Systems offerings include the following: 9-1-1 Information Manager is a software tool for querying the MSAG and telephone number databases used to help maintain the records within these databases. Professional Services Customers: CLECs and IOCs The following professional service offerings enable customers to improve their operations: 9-1-1 Reconciliation. Ensures data integrity between our transaction services system database and the E9-1-1 database provider’s database. 9-1-1 Diagnostic Assessment. Customized assessment conducted by one of our senior 9-1-1 subject matter experts to evaluate efficiency of existing 9-1-1 processes. 9-1-1 Training. Customized training on a variety of 9-1-1-related topics. 9-1-1 Batch MSAG Translation. Validates addresses against the Master Street Address Guide database. This is a database of street names and house number ranges within their associated communities and Emergency Services Numbers (ESNs) to enable proper monitoring and routing of 9-1-1 calls. Intrado Target Notification/Call List Services Customers: Government (Federal/State/Local) and Commercial Enterprises The concept of public safety officials and police and fire departments using the public telephone system to notify citizens of crisis situations has modernized emergency communications services. Our Intrado Target Notification and Call List services provide a fast and efficient means of notifying the public and specialized groups during a crisis. Call events can be launched on a geographical basis or through the use of dedicated lists of telephone numbers. At the onset of an incident, target notification services can be used to provide citizens and emergency personnel with critical information and ongoing updates until the situation is resolved. In 2005, we completed a trial with the National Weather Service to explore weather-based scenarios for targeted notification. The trial validated the ability to integrate all hazards threat modeling into emergency notification. Intrado Target Notification is an emergency telephone notification tool used by local officials to rapidly identify, notify and instruct individuals and first responders in crisis situations. Target Notification is a fully redundant, hosted service, combining a high-capacity calling platform with in-house expertise in database management. A web-based application, it can be accessed via the Internet or any telephone. Intrado Call List is a telephone-based communications tool for reliably distributing information to public safety officials, first responders and others who must rapidly mobilize in response to a crisis. Call list services are based on telephone number data supplied by the customer. The list typically contains the name, title and telephone number of specific individuals to be contacted. Call lists are built and maintained via the Internet. Call lists may contain multiple wireline and wireless telephone numbers for each individual. 6 Intercarrier Information Exchange Customers : VoIP Providers, ILECs, CLECs, Wireless Carriers, Data Aggregators, Other Telecom Service Providers Intrado’s Intercarrier Information Exchange, or IIE, platform focuses on two broad areas of service: (1) data services, and (2) Operation Support Systems, or OSS, provisioning services. IIE services support many aspects of carrier back office applications including billing reconciliation, call routing, Customer Account Record Exchange, or CARE, compliance and routing, carrier identification, billing validity, private Caller Identification with Name, or CNAM, functionality, Local Service Request, or LSR processing, Access Service Request, or ASR, processing, Line Information Database, or LIDB, functionality, and Directory Assistance, or DA. Several of the nation’s largest carriers use the Intrado IIE services to solve complex and, in some cases, previously unsolvable issues. IIE Data Services include the following: National Repository Line Level Database – Intrado maintains the National Repository Line Level Database, or NRLLDB, for the telecom industry. An award from the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, or ATIS, the database contains specific line level information that is CLEC specific and found no where else in the industry, including unbundled network element, or UNE, and resale CLEC information. Private CNAM Services – Intrado maintains a private CNAM database service that allows carriers to house data internally for completion of CNAM, rather than having to continually pay query charges to use the SS7 or IP networks to transport or obtain queries. IIE OSS Provisioning Services are unique in the OSS field because they involve an outsourced model. Intrado handles all issues associated with LSRs, ASRs, service order activation (local number portability), LIDB, CNAM, DA, and CARE population. Some of the largest competitive carriers in the country have found this model to be advantageous and are currently being rewarded with lower costs of customer acquisition and reduced time between customer order and customer payment. Wireless Offerings Intrado® Wireless Services We are the leading provider of outsourced emergency response services and solutions for wireless service providers. We provide a range of products and services, including outsourced transaction management, system integration and a host of educational and professional services, all centered on our scalable and redundant software platforms. Intrado wireless network transaction services and systems route information quickly and accurately, assuring that callers receive rapid and appropriate responses to their calls. These services provide a wide range of applications, including support of Phase I and Phase II E9-1-1 deployments, enhanced emergency services and wireless data services. We offer both service and licensed models. In the service model, we manage the entire E9-1-1 call delivery to the local exchange carrier infrastructure, which in turn delivers the calls to the PSAPs. We manage all of the wireless PSAP boundary data and provisioning of all cell site information for our service customers. In the licensed model, we deliver our location-positioning platform to our customers and provide professional services to implement, train and engineer the in-house solution. We can also provide on-going remote provisioning and PSAP boundary data access for our licensed customers. In either model, our wireless routing data is utilized in the provision of emergency response services throughout the United States. 7 Enhanced 9-1-1 Services Customers: Wireless service providers We host wireless E9-1-1 services, and provide deployment and integration services to enable wireless service providers to comply with the FCC’s Phase I and Phase II mandates. After a wireless service provider receives a valid activation request from a PSAP, our program managers develop a plan with the wireless service provider to activate the service the PSAP is requesting. This plan includes development of LEC network interconnections for both data and voice that are specific to the local wireless network configuration and interface requirements. The program managers develop graphic cell site coverage area maps that are superimposed on current maps of public safety agency boundaries. Routing recommendations can then be made and coordinated with the appropriate PSAP. As a result, 9-1-1 calls are routed to the appropriate PSAP, and the callback number and cell location of the caller are delivered to that PSAP. Wireless 9-1-1 offerings include the following: Intrado Wireless Gateway (IWG) is a network and services solution for integrating and maintaining connectivity to national and regional ALI systems. IWG has the flexibility to handle the real-time ALI exchange interfaces, messaging requirements, and data formats required by ILECs and PSAPs while using standards-based interfaces. Intrado Mobile Positioning Center and Gateway Mobile Location Center (MPC and GMLC) serve as the core network element between a wireless network, location determination equipment and the 9-1-1 network. The Intrado MPC and GMLC give wireless service providers the maximum level of flexibility and reliability required as they deploy emergency services. The MPC and GMLC provide call routing services to wireless switches in a wireless service provider’s network and provide call-back number and caller location information to the PSAP, as required by the FCC mandate. Intrado Coordinate Routing Database (CRDB) is the industry’s most comprehensive and accurate PSAP database. Associated CRDB services include data provisioning, data collection, mapping, call routing facilitation, Emergency Services Messaging Entity and Emergency Services Network Entity provisioning. Program management for CRDB services is handled by experienced professionals who understand E9-1-1 infrastructure. Intrado Position Determination Entity (PDE) offers wireless service providers access to a full-service hosted hardware and software application for their Phase II handset based location deployments. Our hosted PDE service utilizes third party PDE software to locate the latitude and longitude of the wireless caller with remarkable precision without the need for expensive additions or changes to the wireless service provider’s network. Hosted PDE service provides access to a centralized PDE server as well as the necessary application software and engineering expertise for a complete PDE solution. Intrado Standalone ALI connects PSAPs that utilize on-site ALI databases with IWG Services, enabling PSAPs to receive caller location information when wireless 9-1-1 calls are initiated. Intrado Accuracy Compliance Testing Services provide wireless carriers the opportunity to satisfy the location testing and accuracy verification objectives of the FCC’s guidelines and industry standards. By providing the capabilities to monitor the “health” of the emergency services network with an automated solution, carriers minimize the amount of time, money and resources spent on repeated compliance testing. 9-1-1 for Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) provides a highly reliable solution that interfaces between MSS subscribers and PSAPs to meet the FCC mandate for MSS 9-1-1 service. MSS subscribers simply dial 9-1-1, and the call is routed to the Intrado Emergency Call Relay Center (ECRC) where experienced emergency call takers determine the appropriate PSAP and transfer the call. 8 Professional Services Customers: Wireless service providers Our wireless professional services provide customers with the opportunity to meet their unique E9-1-1 project management requirements as well as their need to allocate resources effectively. Intrado E9-1-1 Implementation Services provide assessment of existing capabilities with the technical and operational requirements for successful deployment and management of E9-1-1. Intrado E9-1-1 Infrastructure Services provide drive testing, translations and mapping information. Intrado Cost Recovery Services provides expertise in customized cost recovery and billing services. Intrado E9-1-1 Analytics evaluate the on-going performance of your E9-1-1 environment by accessing key data collected by Intrado. Intrado E9-1-1 Analytics presents performance indicators in areas such as uncertainty (potential distance between wireless caller and calculated Phase II x,y coordinates) and sector call counts that provide insight to E9-1-1 system efficiency and integrity. Government Professional Services Intrado E9-1-1 Consulting Services provide states, counties and municipalities with technical and operational readiness assessments, facility reviews, personnel training and other services that enable government entities to meet their unique E9-1-1 project management requirements. Integration Lab Services Customers: Wireless service providers Intrado Integration Lab Services allow wireless service providers and vendors to perform regression testing, verification testing and location testing of new hardware, software and applications and ensure efficient optimization and operation of all technologies. Enhanced Emergency Services Customers: Telematics Service Providers, Automotive Manufacturers, Call Centers Intrado Enhanced Emergency Services (EES) allow commercial fleet operators, Telematics Service Providers and roadside assistance call centers to receive emergency verbal or text messages from their subscribers. EES delivers vital information to call centers so that calls are quickly and correctly routed to the appropriate PSAP. After the PSAP dispatches the emergency first responders, EES is able to deliver critical, driver-approved medical and health care provider information to the emergency medical service vehicle. Location Services Customers: Wireless service providers Intrado Hosted User Plane PDE Services provide the enhanced functionality needed to successfully launch location-based applications and increase the reliability and accuracy of location-based services while minimizing costs and reducing risks. Mobility Services Customers: Wireless service providers 9 Application-SMSC (A-SMSC) is a scalable and resilient carrier-grade solution for receiving, storing and forwarding short messages for mobile originated (MO) and mobile terminated (MT) application traffic. Direct Messaging Platform (DMP) enables mobile originated (MO) short message services (SMS) messages to be sent directly to a person or application and mobile terminated (MT) messages to bypass the SMSC and be delivered directly to the user’s handset, allowing existing messaging infrastructure to be offloaded. High Speed Bulk Messaging (HSB) enables wireless operators and service providers the ability to send high volumes of SMS messages to a large base of on-net or off-net mobile users with exceptional speed. The SMS Spam Filtering and Fraud Protection Platform (SSF) enables wireless operators to offer their subscribers a service for detecting, filtering and blocking unwanted SMS messages from different networks. Service and Product Pricing For revenue derived primarily from monthly data management and maintenance services, we typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, ranging from two to ten years. Pricing is negotiated based on a variety of factors, including current and expected market conditions, scope of work and value of services provided. For revenue derived from system, new product and professional services sales, including sales of software enhancements, pricing is primarily based on a competitive proposal and acceptance process that takes into account a variety of factors including our costs to acquire, develop, or produce the related system or software enhancement, recovery of overhead, profit and the relative value to the customer. Seasonality Although we do not consider our business to be highly seasonal, in recent years, the timing of our customers’ internal capital budgeting processes occasionally has resulted in higher revenue in the second half of the year, especially in the area of system and software sales and enhancements. While the bulk of our business is stable and recurring, customer buying patterns and our ability to deliver and obtain customer acceptance relative to our expectations can create fluctuations in quarter-to-quarter results of operations. Customers We provide our products, services and systems to a range of customers, including ILECs, CLECs, VoIP carriers, Interexchange Carriers, or IXCs, wireless service providers, and federal, state and local government agencies. Although we license our software to ILECs and provide 9-1-1 data management services indirectly to a large number of independent telephone companies, we are primarily dependent upon large service contracts from a limited number of significant customers. In 2005, we received approximately 54% of our revenue from four customers. See “Risk Factors.” 10 Historically, we have entered into contracts with carriers and their affiliates to provide services to some or all of the carriers’ operating entities, and we have contracts that govern the licensing of our proprietary software. In 2005, we had two revenue-generating segments: wireless and wireline. Following is a partial list of carriers and government entities using our services or products within these segments. We believe this list is representative of our overall customer base. Wireline Customers ILECs Alaska Communications, BellSouth, Cincinnati Bell, Frontier Communications, Qwest, SBC, Verizon CLECs/IXCs Focal Communications, MCI, XO Communications VoIP Providers AT&T, Qwest, Verizon, Vonage Government Entities Texas Commission for State Emergency Communications IntelliCastCustomers Chicago, Denver, Greater Harris County (Houston), Maricopa County (Phoenix), Qwest, SBC, Virginia Beach Wireless Customers ALLTEL, Cingular, Nextel, Qwest Wireless, Sprint PCS, Verizon, Western Wireless Sales and Marketing Our marketing targets telecommunications carriers, government agencies and PSAPs in each geographical market through advertising in industry and government publications, participation in trade shows, presentations at key events, direct sales and marketing campaigns and other initiatives. In addition, our employees serve as the chairpersons and members of key standards committees related to emergency communications services and telecommunications technology and operations. Although our sales strategy relies primarily on our direct channels of distribution, we also have an alliance program to jointly market our products and services with companies who sell complementary products or address our target markets. Our account teams work directly with existing and potential customers in a consultative, problem-solving sales process, to determine and fulfill their needs with appropriate offerings. Sales cycles range from one month to three years. Our indirect channel program team provides distribution partners with a support program framework including channel sales representative training, marketing collateral, product and process support and incentive campaigns. Research and Development We direct our research and development efforts toward providing highly scalable, fault tolerant applications to the public safety, telecommunications and government markets. Development efforts in process are focused on integrating Internet technology, spatial data mapping systems, advanced switching and transport elements capable of interfacing with existing networks and enabling the more efficient E9-1-1 processes that improve data quality. Competition The market for wireline and wireless 9-1-1 solutions is competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for 9-1-1 solutions include: effectiveness of existing infrastructure, scalability, reliability, ease of use, price, technical features, scope of product offerings, customer service and support, ease of technical migration, useful life of new technology and wireless support. Although we believe that our solutions are competitive, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position, especially if companies with significantly greater financial, marketing, service support, technical and other competitive resources enter the market. 11 In the 9-1-1 solutions market, encompassing virtually all of our business units, our principal competitors fall generally within one of four categories: • Internal development departments of major carriers or consulting firms that support such departments; • Companies that offer applications featuring portions of our comprehensive set of E9-1-1 solutions; • Larger companies that are either in the process of entering our market or have the potential to develop comparable products and services; and • Companies that attempt to integrate product components from a number of providers into a targeted customer solution. In addition, a number of companies currently market or have under development software products and services to provide 9-1-1 administration. In the wireless market, we compete primarily with TeleCommunications Systems, Inc. for the provision of 9-1-1 data management services to wireless carriers. In the ILEC and CLEC markets, we compete primarily with internally developed solutions of major carriers, as well as with HBF Group. However, the development of new technologies, including VoIP, may open the traditional 9-1-1 data services to new competitors with substantially greater resources. In the target notification market, our competitors include, among others, Dialogic Communications Corporation, Sigma Communications LLC, FirstCall Network, Inc., and Twenty First Century Communications, Inc. The Intrado Target Notification system is primarily designed for emergency warning applications, which require high-volume, high-availability capabilities for the mass notification of the general public within a dynamically defined geographic area. Most of our competitors’ systems have been designed for workforce mobilization applications, where a pre-defined list of individuals is notified in the event of an incident. Intrado Target Notification and competing products can individually support both applications to some degree; however, the difference in application focus impacts features, system architecture and cost structure. Intellectual Property Rights We have patent rights to protect some of our innovations and proprietary products and technology. We market our products and services under our own names and marks, many of which are registered in our principal markets in the United States and Europe. We own five issued patents. In addition, we have 24 patent applications pending at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications pending in numerous foreign patent offices for each of 11 separate inventions. We also have a limited exclusive license under 15 other issued patents and four other pending patent applications. The foreign patents and applications are, for the most part, counterparts to our U.S. patents and applications, although foreign patent rights might not be available or pursued in technology areas for which U.S. patent rights are sought. We cannot assure you that these patent applications will result in issued patents, nor guarantee that, if issued, such patents will be valid and enforceable. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws both to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology, and to protect us against claims from others. We believe that we have direct intellectual property rights or rights under licensing arrangements covering substantially all of our material technologies. However, third parties may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers in connection with the use of our systems and products. If such a claim were to be made against our customers or us, the outcome would be difficult to predict because of the technical complexity of our systems and products. Further, future claims or litigation, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming and result in costly litigation or settlement efforts. Employees As of February 15, 2006, we employed 776 full-time employees in 16 states and three countries. No employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relationships with our employees are good. The majority of our employees are located in our Longmont headquarters. We have several satellite locations, including 12 our bmd wireless AG operations in Zug, Switzerland and sales, development and support staff in Texas, Washington, DC and Illinois. Facilities Our corporate headquarters and principal administrative, sales and marketing, research and development and support facilities are located in: • Longmont, Colorado, where we occupy 277,000 square feet of office space under a lease expiring December 2011. As of December 31, 2005, the annual base rent for this facility was approximately $2.8 million. • Lisle, Illinois, where we occupy 29,000 square feet of office and warehouse space under a lease that expires August 2014. As of December 31, 2005, the annual base rent for this facility was approximately $572,000. • Austin, Texas, where we occupy approximately 2,600 square feet of office space on a month-to month basis. As of December 31, 2005, the annual base rent for this facility was approximately $35,000. • Zug, Switzerland, where we occupy 6,500 square feet of office space, with an annual base rent of approximately $148,515. All of the above leases provide for periodic defined increases in rent over the life of the lease. Securities and Exchange Commission Filings We file the following reports with the SEC under Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to these reports. We make these reports available free of charge on or through our Internet website, www.intrado.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC; however, information on our website should not be considered to be a part of this report or any other SEC filing. You may request a copy of these filings at no cost. Please direct your requests to: Michael D. Dingman, Jr. Chief Financial Officer Intrado Inc. 1601 Dry Creek Drive Longmont, Colorado 80503 You can also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 “F” Street, N.E., Washington DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains our reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this section, in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks that we face. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. 13 We depend on large contracts from a limited number of significant customers and the loss of any of those contracts would adversely affect our operating results. We depend on large contracts from a limited number of significant customers. We provide our services to a range of customers, including ILECs, CLECs, wireless carriers and state and local government agencies. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized approximately 46% of our total revenue from SBC, Cingular Wireless and Verizon, each of which accounted for approximately 10% or greater of our revenue in 2005. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we recognized approximately 46% of our total revenue from BellSouth, SBC and Verizon, each of which accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue in 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we recognized approximately 55% of total revenue from BellSouth, Qwest, SBC and Verizon each of which accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue during those periods. We believe that these customers and others may continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue in the future. No ILEC contracts are scheduled to expire in 2006. Contracts for four of our largest 14 wireless customers are scheduled to expire in 2006. As we enter negotiations to renew these contracts, our customers may demand price or other contractual concessions. Our ILEC customers could decide to develop and utilize their own proprietary 9-1-1 software and to perform internally the services that they presently outsource to us. Our wireless customers may also choose to not renew with us or to significantly decrease the amount of services they outsource to us in favor of competitors or their own in-house solutions. Moreover, existing contract provisions allow these customers and others to receive contract concessions or to cancel their contracts in the event of customer consolidations, changes in regulatory, legal, labor or business conditions. Contract concessions, or the loss of a major customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions, consolidations, bankruptcies and reorganizations among our telecommunications customers may have a material adverse effect on our market share, liquidity, financial position and operating results. Acquisitions and consolidations among our telecommunications customers, especially in the wireless sector, involve integration risk and create uncertainties related to our pricing structure, ability to negotiate contracts and operating results. Although we believe that we are well positioned to maintain our market share without significant price degradation or loss of customers, we cannot be certain that our financial forecasts and renewal and retention strategies will be successful. Customer consolidations and merger activity may have a material adverse effect on our ability to renew contracts as they expire and maintain current price levels, especially where a consolidated customer base will be able to negotiate volume price discounts. Therefore, customer consolidations and merger activity may have a material adverse effect on our market share, liquidity, financial position, cash flows and operating results. Moreover, some of our customers have filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Other telecommunications customers have experienced cash flow and operating difficulties and may also file for protection from creditors under the federal bankruptcy laws. In addition to the fact that financially troubled customers may be more susceptible to industry consolidations and merger activity, as discussed above, we may experience difficulty in collecting amounts due from these customers. Although we believe that we have provided adequate reserves for bad debt on existing receivables as of the date of this report, future bankruptcies, reorganizations and consolidations in the telecommunications industry may have a material adverse effect on our market share, liquidity, financial position, cash flows and operating results. Our market is characterized by rapid technological change, as evidenced by the increased use of VoIP technology, and we could lose our competitive position if we are not successful in developing new products that achieve market acceptance. The market for our services is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, frequent new product or service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. Existing products may become obsolete and unmarketable when products featuring new technologies are introduced. To be successful, we must be able to enhance existing products and to develop new products that keep pace with technological changes, satisfy our customers and achieve market acceptance. This is best evidenced by the increasing use of VoIP in the traditional 14 wireline market during 2005. VoIP is an innovative technology that enables voice traffic to be carried over an IP-based network. The location of the VoIP caller is not necessarily fixed, presenting a challenge related to the handling and routing of emergency 9-1-1 calls. Increased use of VoIP and other new technologies could open the traditional 9-1-1 data services market to new competition with substantially greater resources than us. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial, marketing, support service, technical and other competitive resources. If we do not realize anticipated benefits from our capitalized software, we may be forced to record an impairment, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In assessing the recoverability of our existing capitalized software assets, we rely on estimates and judgments to determine the net realizable value of each product. When evaluating the net realizable value of a given product, we prepare a forward-looking business case that is comprised of an assessment of future expected benefits to be generated. The expected benefits are compared to the direct costs associated with supporting the product on an ongoing basis to arrive at a contribution margin, defined as expected benefits less direct costs. This contribution margin is compared to the carrying value of the asset at the reporting date to determine if the contribution margin exceeds the asset carrying value plus any additional investments such as hardware or additional development required to enhance or maintain the product. If the aggregate contribution margin is less than the carrying value, an impairment is recorded. Our ability to estimate future expected revenue and benefits with a measured degree of probability is the most significant factor in our estimate of recoverability. If our ability to estimate the expected benefits changes significantly in any given period, we could record impairment charges for certain assets and our operating results could be adversely affected. In the second quarter of 2004, we determined that, due to the continued limited visibility regarding the timing of forecasted revenue opportunities for our Commercial Database product offerings, it was necessary to impair $1.7 million of software assets. We also recorded an impairment charge of $588,000 in the second quarter of 2004 related to a subset of our MPC product offerings based on limited revenue visibility. An economic slowdown and increased international political instability may have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. An economic slowdown or increased international political instability, as demonstrated by terrorist threats, the conflict in Iraq, increasing tension in the Middle East and Korea, and the resulting need for enhanced security measures may have a detrimental effect on our business. An economic slowdown, for example, may impact our customers’ purchasing decisions. In addition, increased political instability may adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or require us to take extra security precautions for our operations and computer database systems. If the economic slowdown or international political instability continues or increases, our business, results of operations and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain key executives, our operating results and growth potential may be adversely affected. Our success greatly depends on our ability to attract and retain key technical, sales and executive personnel. We are especially dependent on the continued services of our senior management team. Although members of our executive team are subject to non-competition agreements, they are not presently subject to employment contracts. As a result, they can terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team could adversely affect our operating results and growth potential. Restrictions on state and local government budgets and other factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our revenue, operating results and cash flows are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of restrictions on state and local government budgets, adverse trends in the telecommunications industry and other factors. Therefore, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of revenue or operating results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results and cash flows fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. 15 The value of your common stock may decrease if employees and other security holders exercise their options and warrants. As shown in the table below, as of February 15, 2006, we have reserved 3,253,678 shares of common stock for future issuance upon exercise of outstanding options and redeemable warrants. Number of Securities to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options and Share Right Awards Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders Stock Options 2,565,655 $ 11.27 Share Right Awards(1) 685,023 — Restricted Stock Units 3,000 — Total 3,253,678 (1) Represents the maximum number of shares issuable upon vesting of share right awards. Share right awards vest (i) upon the achievement of three performance goals (revenue, operating margin and return on invested capital) during the 12-month period ending June 30, 2008; or (ii) upon a change in control. For each performance goal, there are four levels of achievement (less than 90%, 90%, 100%, and 110%). Upon a change in control, share right awards vest at the 100% performance level (in which case only 620,039 shares would be issued). For more information regarding share right awards, refer to the disclosure in our Current Report on Form 8-K/A, as filed with the SEC on July 1, 2005. We may issue additional equity-based securities in the future, including stock options, share right awards, restricted stock units and other securities that are convertible into common stock. Our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved by stockholders, includes an evergreen provision in which the number of shares issuable under the Plan automatically increases on the first trading day in January of each calendar year by an amount equal to 3% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on the last trading day in December of the preceding calendar year (but in no event in excess of 731,000 shares). Equity securities representing an additional 900,233 shares are presently issuable under the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan. As these securities are exercised or vest, you will experience dilution in the market value and earnings per share of your common stock. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from our 9-1-1 data management solutions, and our operating results, financial position and cash flows may depend upon our ability to continue to sell these solutions. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the provisioning of our 9-1-1 data management solutions to ILECs, CLECs, wireless carriers and state and local government agencies. Accordingly, we are susceptible to adverse trends affecting this market segment, including government regulation, technological obsolescence and the entry of new competition. We expect that this market may continue to account for substantially all of our revenue in the near future. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to continue to sell our 9-1-1 solutions, maintain and increase our market share by providing other value-added services to the market, and successfully adapt our technology and services to other related markets. Markets for our existing services and products may not continue to expand and we may not be successful in our efforts to penetrate new markets. Our business is subject to government regulation and other legal uncertainties, which could adversely affect our operations. The market for our services and products has been influenced by various laws and regulations, including: • The adoption of regulations under the Telecommunications Act of 1996; 16 providers of interconnected VoIP service provide E9-1-1 capabilities to their customers in accordance with regulations imposed by the FCC in WC Docket Nos. 04-36 and 05-196; • The duties imposed on us or on our wholly owned subsidiary, Intrado Communications Inc., as a result of its status as a regulated competitive local exchange carrier or as an inter-exchange carrier; • The duties imposed on incumbent local exchange carriers by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, or other legislation, regulation or judicial or administrative determinations, to open local telephone markets, including 9-1-1 service as a part of local exchange service, to competition; • The responsibilities of local exchange carriers to provide subscriber records to emergency service providers under the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999; and • The impact of various federal and state regulations on wireless carriers that provide E9-1-1 service, including, but not limited to, regulations imposed by the FCC in C.C. Docket No. 94-102. Any changes to these legal requirements, including those caused by the adoption of new laws and regulations or by legal challenges, could have a material adverse effect upon the market for our services and products. In particular, any delay in implementation of the newly imposed regulatory requirements imposed by the FCC on VoIP services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to reporting and governance requirements that have significantly increased our compliance costs in the impacted areas. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have recently issued new regulations and requirements and are currently developing additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with current and proposed rules, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has required and is likely to continue to require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs were approximately $500,000 in 2005 and exceeded $2 million in 2004. We also cannot predict whether our compliance efforts will result in operational efficiencies that will help to offset past or ongoing compliance costs. The expenditures necessary to comply with new regulations and regulatory requirements may continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs from product liability, negligence, wrongful death and similar claims relating to our services and our software. Because customers utilize our services and licensed software products to provide critical 9-1-1 services, we are subject to product liability, negligence, wrongful death and related claims. Our agreements with customers typically require us to indemnify customers for our own acts of negligence and non-performance. Product liability and other forms of insurance are expensive and may not be available in the future. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts or that our insurer may not disclaim coverage as to a future claim. Payments of material claims for product liability, negligence, wrongful death or similar claims may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by unauthorized access to our system or any interruption of our services or system failure. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment and systems in effective working order, and to protect our systems against unauthorized access to our system by third parties or 17 employees and against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, sabotage or other events. Any unauthorized access or unanticipated interruption or delay in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any addition or expansion of our facilities to increase capacity could increase our exposure to damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized access or similar events. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur in the event of a system failure or a breach of security. Furthermore, insurance may not be available to us at all or, if available, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. To protect our proprietary rights or to deal with claims that we infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be forced to incur substantial costs and to divert valuable managerial resources away from our business operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to assert and defend our intellectual property rights. To protect our rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions. We cannot be sure that these steps will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. Nor can we be sure that competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our proprietary property and technology. In our industry, competitors often assert intellectual property claims against one another. As the functionality of our services and products increases and overlaps with the products and services of other companies, we may be forced to assert our intellectual property rights or become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. These claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, even if the claims are ultimately decided in our favor. In certain customer agreements, we agree to indemnify our customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of the indemnities may be greater than the revenue we received from the customer. Although we have not experienced any material claims to date, future claims or litigation, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be offered or obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation or royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to the risks inherent in international operations, our operating results and stock price could be adversely affected. Although our consolidated financial statements are prepared in U.S. dollars, the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, bmd wireless AG, Intrado International Ltd., and Intrado International Singapore Pte. Ltd., and our China joint venture, Intrado (XieAn) Technology (China) Co. Ltd., are conducted primarily in Swiss francs, euros, Singapore dollars, and Chinese yuan renminbi. Consequently, changes in exchange rates can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and could result in exchange losses. We do not currently hedge against the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future, we may not be able to eliminate or reduce the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. In addition, our financial results may be adversely affected by other international risks, such as: • Changes in government regulation in various countries; • Trade barriers; • Adverse tax consequences; • The absence or significant inadequacy of legal protection for intellectual property rights; 18 • The adoption of data privacy laws or regulations; • Political and economic instability; and • Costs associated with expansion into new territories. Although our international operations do not presently represent a material portion of our business, we intend to seek other opportunities in Europe and Asia. If we do not anticipate and respond to the risks associated with international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. The adoption of new accounting requirements relating to expensing stock options is expected to significantly reduce our results of operations in future periods and may impact our ability to retain existing employees and directors. We currently account for the issuance of stock options under Accounting Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). With the adoption of new accounting requirements related to historical and prospective stock awards and incentives, including Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), we will now be required to treat the value of the stock options granted to employees and directors as compensation expense beginning in the first quarter of 2006. As a result, we may decide to reduce the number of stock options granted to employees and directors or to grant other forms of equity-based compensation, including restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. This could adversely affect our ability to retain existing employees or directors and attract qualified candidates. Moreover, this could force us to increase the cash compensation we would have to pay employees. The market price of our common stock may experience price fluctuations for reasons over which we have no control, including trends that affect the telecommunications industry as a whole. The market price of shares of our common stock has fluctuated greatly since our initial public offering in June 1998 and could continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, some of which are not within our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If our institutional investors sell large volumes of our common stock within a short period of time, the market price of our common stock may decline. As of February 15, 2006, approximately 73.4% of our outstanding common stock is owned by large institutional investors. These institutions and others may sell their shares of common stock at any time, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. If we fail to integrate businesses and assets that we may acquire, we may lose customers and our liquidity, capital resources and profitability may be adversely affected. We acquired bmd wireless AG in February 2004. In the past, we have also acquired product source code rights to help broaden and strengthen our product portfolio. We may continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions as a part of our long-term business strategy. Acquisitions often involve a number of special risks, including the following: • We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired software, operations and personnel and our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; • We may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired technology and rights into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 19 • The businesses or assets we acquire may fail to achieve the revenue and earnings we anticipated, causing us to incur additional debt to fund operations and to write down the value of acquisitions on our financial statements; • We may assume product liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; • Our resources may be diverted in asserting and defending our legal rights and we may ultimately be liable for contingent and other liabilities, not previously disclosed to us, of the companies that we acquire; • Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business and dilute your ownership interest; • Acquisitions may result in litigation from former employees or third parties; and • Due diligence may fail to identify significant issues with product quality, product architecture, ownership rights and legal contingencies, among other matters. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market value of our common stock. With regard to our acquisition of bmd wireless AG, we expect significantly greater competitive pressure and a slower path for penetration of bmd’s technology into the European and North American markets. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $14.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. There can be no assurance that we will realize the full benefits that we anticipated from our acquisition of bmd wireless AG or any future acquisitions. Our failure to successfully gain market acceptance of the products acquired or to gain market share could seriously harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, negotiation of potential acquisitions and the resulting integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies, could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could include the issuance of dilutive equity securities or cause us to incur debt, contingent liabilities, additional amortization charges from intangible assets, asset impairment charges, or write-off charges for in-process research and development and other indefinite-lived intangible assets that could impact our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. If our proposed merger with West Corporation is approved by our stockholders, our common stock will no longer be traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market and you will not be able to participate in our growth or any synergies resulting from the merger. On January 29, 2006, our Board of Directors announced that it had entered into a merger agreement with West Corporation in which West had agreed to purchase all or our outstanding common stock for $26.00 per share. If the proposed merger is approved by our stockholders at an upcoming special meeting, then: • we will be wholly owned by West Corporation; • you will no longer participate in our growth and will not participate in any synergies resulting from the merger; and • we will no longer be a public company, and our common stock will no longer be quoted on The Nasdaq National Market. If we fail to satisfy the conditions to consummation of the proposed merger, you may not receive the offering price and we may have to pay a termination fee to West Corporation. If we or West Corporation fail to satisfy the conditions to consummation of the merger, you may not be entitled to receive the offering price of $26.00 per share and the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. In certain circumstances, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $15.0 million to West Corporation if the 20 merger agreement is terminated. Moreover, the announcement of the merger may have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, operating results and business generally, including our ability to retain key employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 