ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties that we currently believe are most important are described below. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Demand for our services is affected by the economic climate in the industries and markets we serve. The demand for our services is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of our clients. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the downturn in the economic condition in the countries in which we do business, primarily the United States and the United Kingdom, reduced the demand for our services resulting in a significant decrease in our revenues and profits. Further deterioration of the economic condition in the countries in which we do business may continue to reduce the demand for our services and our related revenues and profits. While we may attempt to manage our cost structure in response to reduced demand for our services, the associated costs may negatively impact our results and these efforts may not be successful in having us remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain our current profit margins. In addition, a country’s currency is impacted by its economic condition. Our results of operations are therefore exposed to exchange rate fluctuations due to the level of our international operations, primarily in the United Kingdom. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations. We have not entered and do not currently anticipate entering into hedging instruments to mitigate this risk. Our market is highly competitive with low barriers to entry. Our industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented, and the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, and new ones are entering the market continually. In addition, some of these competitors have greater resources than us. Competition arises locally, regionally, nationally, internationally and in certain cases from remote locations, particularly from offshore locations such as India and China. This competition could make it difficult to maintain our current revenue levels and profit margins. Certain of our contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive proposals, which can be periodically re-bid by the client. There can be no assurance that existing contracts will be renewed on satisfactory terms or that additional or replacement contracts will be awarded to us. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible portion of our revenue. There can be no assurance we will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that we will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain our current profit margins. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business requires a qualified candidate pool, which we may not be able to recruit or maintain. Our staffing services consist of the placement of individuals seeking employment in specialized IT and professional positions. Some of these sectors are characterized by a shortage of qualified candidates. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for employment will continue to be available or will continue to seek employment through us. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including our competitors and us. Any shortage of qualified candidates could materially adversely affect us. Our business depends on key personnel, including executive officers, local managers and field personnel. We are engaged in a services business. As such, our success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of our management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which we have few). There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to our success. We have to comply with existing government regulation and are exposed to increasing regulation of the workplace. Our business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material in the future. Any inability to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements, or increase in the cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, our staffing services entail employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could materially adversely affect us. We are exposed to claims and costs, liabilities and litigation arising from the delivery of our services. Our recruiting services involve our referring candidates to clients for potential employment, and our staffing services entail employing or retaining individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Our recruiting services entail a risk of liability to our clients and others, contractually and otherwise, arising from allegations of inadequate background checks, inadequate credentialing of our nursing and healthcare workers, and negligent referral of candidates to our clients. Our staffing services entail a risk of liability to our clients and others, contractually and otherwise, arising from various workplace events, often beyond our control, including allegations of errors and omissions, injury to property or persons, or misappropriation or theft of property or proprietary information allegedly caused or contributed to by our temporary workers. Our staffing services in the healthcare sector carry the particular risk of potentially substantial claims we place associated with allegations of professional liability for the acts or omissions of medical professionals we place, including nurses, pharmacists, physicians and healthcare technicians. Our staffing services also entail a risk of employment and co-employment liability, to either or both our clients and our temporary workers, arising from allegations by our temporary workers of discrimination, harassment, inadequate workplace conditions, or entitlement to employee benefits or pay from clients to which they are assigned. We maintain insurance for many of the aforementioned claims, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon us, that these policies will sufficiently cover all potential claims, most particularly those associated with professional liability in the healthcare field, or that such claims (whether by reason of not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon us. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, companies, and these acquisitions could disrupt our business or adversely affect our earnings. We have acquired several companies and may continue to acquire companies in the future. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including failure to successfully integrate the acquired company with our existing business, alienation or impairment of relationships with substantial customers or key employees of the acquired business or our existing business, and assumption of liabilities of the acquired business. Any acquisition that we consummate also may have an adverse affect on our liquidity or earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. Adverse business conditions or developments suffered by or associated with any business we acquire additionally could result in 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements impairment to the goodwill or intangible assets associated with the acquired business and a related write down of the value of these assets, adversely affecting our earnings. We may be subject to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors listed above, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of new services by our competitors or us; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; and other changes in general economic conditions. Because of this, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of our shareholders or of our securities analysts and the market price for our common stock could fluctuate as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 