ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties that we currently believe are most important are described below. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this document. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Demand for our services is affected by the economic climate in the industries and markets we serve. The demand for our services, in particular our staffing services, is highly dependent upon the state of the economy and upon the staffing needs of our clients. Any negative variation in the economic condition of the United States, United Kingdom or of any of the other foreign countries in which we do business, may severely reduce the demand for our services and thereby significantly decrease our revenues and profits. Our market is highly competitive with low barriers to entry. Our industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented, and the barriers to entry are quite low. There are many competitors, and new ones are entering the market constantly. In addition, some of these competitors have greater resources than us. Competition arises locally, regionally, nationally, internationally and in certain cases from remote locations, particularly from offshore locations such as India and China. Certain of our contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive proposals, which can be periodically re-bid by the client. There can be no assurance that existing contracts will be renewed on satisfactory terms or that additional or replacement contracts will be awarded to us. In addition, long-term contracts form a negligible 9 Table of Contents portion of our revenue. There can be no assurance we will be able to retain clients or market share in the future. Nor can there be any assurance that we will, in light of competitive pressures, be able to remain profitable or, if profitable, maintain our current profit margins. Our business requires a qualified candidate pool, which we may not be able to recruit or maintain. Our staffing services consist of the placement of individuals seeking employment in specialized IT and professional positions. Some of these sectors are characterized by a shortage of qualified candidates. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for employment will continue to be available or will continue to seek employment through us. Candidates generally seek temporary or regular positions through multiple sources, including us and our competitors. Any shortage of qualified candidates could materially adversely affect us. Our business depends on key personnel, including executive officers, local managers and field personnel. We are engaged in a services business. As such, our success or failure is highly dependent upon the performance of our management personnel and employees, rather than upon technology or upon tangible assets (of which we have few). There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel that are essential to our success. We have to comply with existing government regulation and are exposed to increasing regulation of the workplace. Our business is subject to regulation or licensing in many states and in certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material in the future. Any inability to comply with government regulation or licensing requirements, or increase in the cost of compliance, could materially adversely affect us. Additionally, our staffing services entail employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could materially adversely affect us. We are exposed to claims and costs, liabilities and litigation arising from the delivery of our services. Our recruiting services involve our referring candidates to clients for potential employment, and our staffing services entail employing or retaining individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Our recruiting services entail a risk of liability to our clients and others, contractually and otherwise, arising from allegations of inadequate background checks, inadequate credentialing of our nursing and healthcare workers, and negligent referral of candidates to our clients. Our staffing services entail a risk of liability to our clients and others, contractually and otherwise, arising from various workplace events, often beyond our control, including allegations of errors and omissions, injury to property or persons, or misappropriation or theft of property or proprietary information allegedly caused or contributed to by our temporary workers. Our staffing services also entail a risk of employment and co-employment liability, to either or both our clients and our temporary workers, arising from allegations by our temporary workers of discrimination, harassment, inadequate workplace conditions, or entitlement to employee benefits or pay from clients to which they are assigned. We maintain insurance for many of the aforementioned claims, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain insurance at a cost that does not have a material adverse effect upon us or that such claims (whether by reason of not having insurance or by reason of such claims being outside the scope of the insurance) will not have a material adverse effect upon us. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, companies, and these acquisitions could disrupt our business or adversely affect our earnings. We have acquired several companies and may continue to acquire companies in the future. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including failure to successfully integrate the acquired company with our existing business, alienation or impairment of relationships with substantial customers or key employees of the acquired business or our existing business, and assumption of liabilities of the acquired business. Any acquisition that we consummate also may have an adverse affect on our liquidity or earnings and may be dilutive to our earnings. Adverse business conditions or developments suffered by or associated with any business we acquire additionally could result in impairment to the goodwill or intangible assets associated with the acquired business and a related write down of the value of these assets, adversely affecting our earnings. 10 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors listed above, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of new services by our competitors or us; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; and other changes in general economic conditions. Because of this, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of our shareholders or of our securities analysts and the market price for our common stock could fluctuate as a result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 