ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Our operations are focused on our owned utilities and utilities we service under contract that are owned by cities, municipal utility districts and private companies. There are separate risk factors associated with each. UTILITY BUSINESSES Weather Conditions Rainfall and weather conditions affect the financial results of our utility businesses. · Most water use occurs during the second and third quarters of each year when weather tends to be hot and dry. Depending on the degree of heat and lack of rain, our marginal costs of water may exceed our marginal revenue as we use higher-cost purchased water to meet customer demand. Therefore, while our revenue may increase, in some cases we may experience lower profit margins during periods of peak demand. · Drought, or conversely, unusually wet conditions, may also adversely impact our revenue and profitability. During a drought, we may experience both lower revenue due to consumer conservation efforts and higher water costs due to supply shortages. Since a relatively high percentage of our water is used for residential landscape irrigation, unusually wet conditions could result in decreased customer demand, lower revenue and lower profit. Consequently, the results of operations for one quarter should not be used to predict the results of future quarters. 18 Table of Contents Conservation Efforts Customer conservation can result in lower volumes of water sold. We are experiencing a decline in per residential customer water usage in California, which we believe is due, in part, to conservation efforts. · Our utilities businesses are heavily dependent upon revenue generated from rates charged to our residential customers for the volume of water used. The rates we charge for water are regulated by state regulatory bodies and may not be unilaterally adjusted to reflect changes in demand. Declining usage also negatively impacts our long-term operating revenue if we are unable to secure rate increases or if growth in the residential customer base does not occur to the extent necessary to offset the per customer residential usage decline. In August 2008, we implemented a Monterey-style water revenue adjustment mechanism at our California utility (see “Item 1 Business — Monterey-style Water Revenue Adjustment Mechanism” for more information) which has the effect of reducing, in part, the adverse impacts of our customers’ conservation efforts. However, increases to the WRAM have a negative impact on our liquidity by deferring collection of current period revenue or costs to future periods. Regulatory Environment Changes in the regulatory environment, including restrictions on the rates we are allowed to charge customers, may adversely affect our results of operations. · Our utility subsidiaries are subject to regulation by governmental agencies which establish the rates that we may charge our customers. These rates are intended, in concept, to permit our utilities to recover operating costs and earn a reasonable rate of return. Each state regulatory agency sets the rules and policies that allow our utilities to file applications to increase rates as expenses or investment needs increase. These rules and policies may require that we estimate future expenses or may require that we incur specific expenses before there can be a change in rates. As a result, our revenue and earnings may fluctuate depending on the accuracy of our estimates, timing of our investments or expenses, or other factors. If we were unable to obtain a rate increase that completely offsets the effect of higher costs, we would realize a decrease in our profitability. · The regulatory agencies may change their rules and policies which may adversely impact our profitability. In some states, regulators are elected by popular vote, and the results of elections may change the rules and policies of the agency. For example, in Alabama the State has enacted new regulations for the discharge of treated wastewater effluent into the Cahaba River. The new standards require us to invest in advanced phosphate removal technology. While we will request the recovery of the cost of these new systems in rate increases, we cannot assure that we will be able to economically meet regulatory compliance with future regulations. Water Sources We have no assured access to water. · Each of our utilities obtains its water from various sources. The preferred source is pumping water from aquifers within our service areas. In the event that our wells cannot meet the customer demand, we purchase water from surrounding municipalities, agencies and other utilities. However, it usually costs us more to purchase water than to produce it. Furthermore, these alternative sources may not always have an adequate supply to sell us. · To date, we have been able to produce and purchase enough water to meet our current customer requirements in California, our largest revenue producing state. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to produce or purchase enough water to fully satisfy 19 Table of Contents future customer demand in our California service area. For example, our California utility purchases some water from adjacent water purveyors who secure water from the Metropolitan Water District (“MWD”), especially during times of peak consumption. MWD receives water from both the California aqueduct system and the Colorado River. In 2007, the California Department of Water Resources, the operator of the California aqueduct system, was issued a court order to reduce by one-third the amount of water it draws from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to protect endangered fish. Additionally, the aqueduct levees have recently come under scrutiny and there is a risk of failure in the event of a natural disaster. These events and others have impacted the amount of water that the MWD can provide to its customers and the price of that water has increased and may continue to do so. At our California utility, we have established water supply cost balancing accounts for expenses of purchased water. Under the water supply cost balancing account procedures, changes in water supply costs, such as those that occurred due to changes in supply mix (purchased water volume vs. pumped water, for instance) compared to the authorized amounts are recorded to this balance sheet account which has the effect of reducing the adverse impacts of water cost fluctuations over time. However, increases to the supply cost balancing accounts have a negative impact on our liquidity by deferring collection of current period costs to future periods. · In Texas, many of our small utility systems rely on groundwater supply sources. Central Texas has been experiencing a severe drought since 2004. This drought has lowered ground water tables in nearby aquifers which has resulted in lower yields from the supply wells. This has caused us to limit supply to some customers by restricting water use. In some cases we have had to truck in water to fill operating storage tanks to support depleted supply. · We are currently examining various options to increase our available water supply in California and Texas. These options include drilling new wells, adding connections to other water purveyors and constructing water treatment facilities. We cannot assure that the results of drilling the wells will be successful, that we will be able to obtain necessary permits to add new supply lines and connections, or that we will be able to obtain regulatory or legislative approval to operate new water treatment facilities. · We can make no guarantee that we will always have access to an adequate supply of water that will meet all quality standards, or that the cost of our water will not adversely affect our operating results. Environmental and Water Quality Risks We are subject to environmental risks and may not be able to provide an adequate supply of water to our customers. · Improved detection technology, increasingly stringent regulatory requirements and heightened consumer awareness of water quality issues contribute to an environment of increased focus on water quality. We cannot assure that we will be able in the future to reduce contaminants in our wells to acceptable levels at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. · Standards that we must meet are constantly changing and becoming more stringent. While we may request rate increases to recover the cost of complying with standards that may be enacted in the future, we cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining those rate increases. · Contamination of our water sources by third parties may adversely affect our operations. Our water sources are susceptible to contamination. We may not be able to recover costs incurred or revenue lost due to such contamination. Additionally, contamination 20 Table of Contents exposes us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. Condemnation through Eminent Domain The assets of our utilities businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain. · Municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the United States, and organized movements may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our utilities businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through the governmental power of eminent domain. Should a municipality or other government subdivision seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain, we may resist the acquisition. Contesting an exercise of condemnation through eminent domain may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of the management of the affected utilities from the operation of its business. SERVICE BUSINESSES Contract Cancellations Some of our operations and maintenance contracts may be canceled upon short notice, reducing our revenue and service backlog. · Our service businesses revenue backlog consists of new and existing contracts. We include new contracts in the backlog when we have a signed contract. Revenue included in our backlog may be realized over a multi-year period. The contracts signed by our service businesses typically have durations of two to three years and some are cancelable with 30 to 60 days prior notice or sooner if breached. The uncompleted portion of base revenue for these existing contracts is reflected in the backlog. Although our service businesses tend to experience high renewal rates, municipalities and cities periodically change operators or terminate outsourcing at the end of a contract. The inability to renew existing contracts could have a material adverse impact on our service businesses. In addition, a client could cancel a long-term contract without notice. This would result in loss of revenue and operating profits and may result in litigation if a breach of contract occurs. Additionally, due to a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, budgetary constraints, lack of client processes or improper contract administration, modifications or extensions of our contracts could occur which would directly affect revenue and profit. Also our technical ability to properly perform contract requirements is critical inasmuch as deficiencies in performance could impact payments under our contracts or cause us to be susceptible to fines and penalties. Environmental and Water Quality Risks Our service businesses are subject to environmental and water quality risks. · We operate facilities on behalf of our clients under contract. These facilities must be operated in accordance with various federal and state water quality standards in addition to the terms of our contracts. We also handle certain hazardous materials at these facilities, such as chlorine gas and hydrogen sulfide. Any failures of our operation of the facilities, including sewage spills, noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous material leaks and spills, and similar events, could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. We cannot assure that we will successfully manage these issues, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Competition We operate in a competitive market. · Our service businesses compete with several larger companies whose size, financial resources, customer base and technical expertise may restrict our ability to compete successfully for certain operations and maintenance contracts. · Due to the nature of our contract operations business, and the very competitive nature of the market, we must accurately estimate the cost and profitability of each project while, at the same time, maintaining prices at a level low enough to compete with other companies. Our inability to achieve this balance could adversely impact our results of operations. Revenue Growth Our revenue growth depends upon our ability to obtain new operating contracts as well as to renew existing contracts with cities, municipal utility districts and other agencies or clients. · Because we are mostly selling our services in a political environment, we are subject to changing trends and municipal preferences. In the United States, municipalities own and municipal employees operate many water and wastewater systems. A significant portion of our service businesses’ marketing and sales efforts is spent demonstrating the benefits of contract operations to elected officials and municipal authorities. The existing political environment means that decisions are based on many factors, not just economic factors. Escalating Costs Our operating costs, construction costs and costs of providing services may rise faster than our revenue. · Many of our contracts with municipalities include contractual price increases tied to national consumer price indices. However, our costs are subject to market conditions and other factors, which may increase at a significantly higher pace than a generalized price index. The largest component of our operating costs is made up of salaries and wages. These costs are affected by the local supply and demand for qualified labor. Other large components of our costs are general liability insurance, workers’ compensation insurance, employee benefits and health insurance costs. These costs may increase at rates higher than the applicable general price index based on our actual claims incurred experience, and other factors, and, therefore, may result in a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Weather Conditions Events such as heavy rain, hurricanes, tornadoes and floods may affect our results of operations. · Our service businesses contract operations can be impacted by inclement weather which may limit our ability to perform certain billable work such as pipeline maintenance, manhole rehabilitation and other outdoor services. · Severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods, may result in additional labor and material costs that may not necessarily be recoverable under our firm, fixed-price O&M contracts, and, therefore, may adversely impact our results of operations. Natural Disasters or Terrorist Activities We operate assets for others under contracts in areas that historically have experienced natural 22 Table of Contents disasters or that may be disrupted by terrorist activities. · Some of our contracts are located in areas that historically have experienced earthquakes and hurricanes as well as other natural disasters. While we maintain insurance policies to help reduce our financial exposure, a significant event could adversely impact our ability to perform contract services resulting in contract terminations or reduced scope of work. · The assets covered by our contracts could be targeted by terrorists seeking to disrupt services to our customers. OTHER RISK FACTORS Definitive Merger Agreement Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including, among others, approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement by our stockholders, the absence of certain legal impediments to consummation of the Merger and the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. As a result, we cannot guarantee that the closing conditions will be satisfied or that the Merger will be successfully completed. These conditions could have the effect of delaying consummation of the Merger or imposing additional costs. Whether or not the Merger is completed: § management’s attention from ongoing business concerns may be diverted; § we may experience difficulties in employee retention or customer relationships; § we will be required to pay costs, fees and expenses related to the pending Merger; and § our current plans and operational results may be disrupted, and initiatives that we would have undertaken in the absence of the pending Merger may be delayed. If the Merger is not completed, we may be required to pay a termination fee equal to 3% of the aggregate Merger Consideration or be responsible for reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with the Merger Agreement Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will occur, and failure to complete the Merger could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The Merger Agreement contains customary restrictions on our operations prior to consummation of the Merger, including making capital expenditures, incurring debt, acquiring and disposing of assets, entering into material contracts and capital transactions. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger and may impede our growth and limit the development of our business, which could negatively impact our revenue, earnings and cash flows. Internal Control Weaknesses We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. · As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, identified material weaknesses and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2009. For a detailed description of these material 23 Table of Contents weaknesses, see Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Each of our material weaknesses result in the likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform additional work at additional expense to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the material weaknesses identified, we cannot assure that additional financial statement errors will be prevented or detected or that in the future other material weaknesses may not be identified. We have not completely remediated the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. · We are in the process of developing and implementing remediation efforts for the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal year 2010 and after. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed, when it will be implemented and the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remedial efforts are completed, we will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, there will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. We will rely upon additional interim control procedures prescribed by management, including the use of manual mitigating control procedures and the utilization of external technical advisors, to fairly state our financial statements in all material respects. However, we cannot assure that these interim controls will be sufficient to assure that all errors will be detected. Debt Covenants We are subject to debt covenants. · We are obligated to comply with specified debt covenants under some of our loan and debt agreements. Failure to maintain compliance with these covenants could limit future borrowing, and we could face penalties, increased borrowing costs, litigation, the acceleration of maturity schedules and cross default issues. Such actions by our creditors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Capital Resources Our capital resources may restrict our ability to operate and expand our business. · We may be unable to renew our credit facilities when they expire. We may be unable to execute additional financing alternatives at terms that we find acceptable. If we are unable to renew our existing lines of credit, or if we are unable to execute additional financing alternatives, our capital spending could be reduced, delayed or eliminated and any future acquisitions could also be delayed or eliminated, which could negatively impact our revenue, revenue growth and profitability. · We have a capital planning process that evaluates our capital needs. We believe the plan is adequate at this time to fund our capital spending. However, we can not assure that conditions will not change that will make this plan insufficient which could result in the need for our capital spending to be reduced which could negatively impact our revenue, revenue growth and profitability. · See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Contractual Commitments and Indemnities” for additional information with respect to our credit facilities. Capital Market Transactions We were unable to timely file our required SEC filings for the September 30, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As 24 Table of Contents a result, this has adversely affected our eligibility to use Registration Statements on Form S-3 for registration of our securities with the SEC. Use of Form S-3 requires, among other things, that the issuer be current and timely in its reports under the Exchange Act for at least the preceding twelve months. Because of our inability to use Form S-3, we will have to meet more demanding requirements to register securities, which may make it more difficult for us to effect public offering transactions, and our range of available financing alternatives could also be narrowed. We are required to continue to suspend our Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plans for one year from the time our re-audited and restated financials were filed with the SEC and we became compliant with all timely filings. Because of our late filings, NASDAQ issued Staff Deficiency Letters indicating our non-compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace rules. The Company explained the circumstances of the late filings and described our plan for regaining compliance at a hearing with NASDAQ. On July 1, 2009, the Company was notified that the NASDAQ had granted the Company’s request to extend the current filing compliance deadline to August 31, 2009. The Company regained compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements prior to August 31, 2009; however, if our shares are not listed on NASDAQ, stockholders will likely face decreased liquidity and it will be more difficult for us to raise capital. Stock Price Fluctuations Our common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, earnings below analysts’ estimates and financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in our industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. We can provide no assurance that our share price will remain stable going forward. Additionally, extended stock price declines could have an impact on our goodwill impairment analysis. Information Technology Our businesses are dependent on several complex business systems that must function reliably in order for us to operate effectively. Among other things, system malfunctions could prevent us from operating or monitoring our facilities, billing accurately and timely analyzing financial results. Our profitability and cash flow could be impacted negatively in the event these systems do not operate effectively. Uninsured Risks Risk Transfer We evaluate our risks and insurance coverage annually. Our evaluation considers the identification of various risks and the costs and benefits of either transferring or retaining such risks. We consider the availability and costs of the risks we choose to transfer. Our insurance coverages for the risks we have chosen to transfer include insurance for the health of our employees and insurance for our assets, income and operations such as property, business interruption, liability, pollution, directors and officers, employment practices, and fiduciary and crime. We cannot assure that the risks we choose to transfer are available and at a reasonable cost. Our inability to secure or renew insurance coverage for risks we choose to transfer may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Risk Retention We retain certain risks which we have chosen not to transfer through our insurance coverages. Retained risks are those risks associated with deductibles, losses in excess of insurance coverage limits and losses associated with unidentified risks. We have retained risk associated with employee health insurance coverage as well as workers compensation and auto liability insurance coverage. 25 Table of Contents We cannot assure that uninsured losses pertaining to risks we have retained or not identified will not adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Geographic Diversity Our operations are subject to certain risks due to their location. We own or operate water and wastewater facilities in numerous locations in numerous states and, consequently, we are subject to widely differing weather, political, water supply, labor supply, utility cost, regulatory, legal, economic and other local risks in the areas we service. We cannot control these local risks. We have been named in litigation that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are a named defendant in certain litigation. These lawsuits are described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by these lawsuits and we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers who may be parties to such action). Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay material damages and fines, forced to consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, our ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A general economic downturn such as the one the U.S. economy is currently experiencing may lead to a number of impacts on our business that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such impacts may include: a reduction in discretionary and recreational water use by our residential water customers, particularly during the summer months when such discretionary usage is normally at its highest; a decline in usage by industrial and commercial customers as a result of decreased business activity; an increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay or delays in paying their utility bills, or an increase in customer bankruptcies, which may lead to higher bad debt expense and reduced cash flow; a lower natural customer growth rate due to a decline in new housing starts; and a decline in the number of active customers due to housing vacancies or abandonments. We depend significantly on the services of the members of our management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The loss of the services of key members of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. Risks associated with potential acquisitions or investments may adversely affect us. We may continue to seek to acquire or invest in additional regulated water or wastewater systems, including acquiring systems in markets in the United States where we do not currently operate. These possible transactions may result in: · incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · failure to have or to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; · fluctuations in quarterly results; 26 Table of Contents · exposure to unknown risk and liabilities, such as environmental liabilities; and · other acquisition-related expenses. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining required regulatory approvals for acquisitions, and any regulatory approvals we obtain may require us to agree to costly and restrictive conditions imposed by regulators. There may be difficulties integrating new businesses, including bringing newly acquired businesses up to the necessary level of regulatory compliance, retaining and integrating key personnel, achieving strategic objectives and integrating acquired assets and technological systems. The demands of identifying and transitioning newly acquired businesses or pursuing investment opportunities may also divert management’s attention from other business concerns and otherwise disrupt our business. Any of these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Delaware law contains anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders Provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make the acquisition of the Company and the removal of incumbent officers and directors more difficult by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from acquiring the Company, without our board of directors’ consent, for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock. Dividends Since 1960, our practice has been to pay common stock cash dividends quarterly. The amount and timing of future dividends depends on our growth, results of operations, profitability and financial condition, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Many of the risk factors noted above could have an impact on our ability to declare and pay future dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 