Risk Factors” of this report. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements since such statements speak only as of the date when made. Other than as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. OVERVIEW Southwest Water Company and its subsidiaries provide a broad range of services including water production, treatment and distribution; wastewater collection and treatment; utility billing and collection; utility infrastructure construction management; and public works services. We own regulated public utilities and also serve cities, utility districts and private companies under contract. We provide our services to more than two million people. Our subsidiaries are segmented into two operating groups: our Utility Group and our Services Group. Within our Utility Group, we own and manage the operations of rate-regulated public water and wastewater utilities in Alabama, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, through which we sell water to residential and commercial customers. State and federal agencies issue regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters which affect these operations. The rates that we can charge for water and wastewater usage are established and approved by state government agencies. Our Services Group provides water and wastewater facility operations and maintenance services, equipment maintenance and repair, sewer pipeline cleaning, billing and collection services, and state-certified water and wastewater laboratory analysis on a contract basis. The facilities operated by the Services Group are owned by cities, public agencies, municipal utility districts and private entities primarily in Alabama, California, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi, New Jersey, New Mexico, South Dakota and Texas. Our Services Group also facilitates the design, construction, project management, and operating aspects of various water and wastewater projects. During the construction phase of such a project, our Services Group may have an ownership interest in the project. While state and federal agencies issue regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters which affect our Services Group operations, the pricing of the services provided by our Services Group is not subject to government regulation. Southwest Water Company was incorporated in California in 1954 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1988. We maintain our corporate offices in Los Angeles, California. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our primary objectives are to provide an essential product and service, and to generate value for clients, customers, employees and stockholders. We apply two principal strategies in our efforts to continue growing our business and improving our financial performance: We work to enhance organic revenue growth. Southwest Water Company is a leading full spectrum service provider in the water and wastewater industries. We have a broad service presence in high population- 1 growth states. Our target market focus is on small to medium size cities. We offer our clients and customers services within our core competency of water and wastewater management. In addition, we provide related peripheral services including: • construction management of water and wastewater systems; • water and wastewater certified laboratory services; • municipal public works services and/or management; • non-regulated wholesale water sales; • pipeline inspection; • water meter replacement; and • refurbishing of manholes and sewer lines. Utility Group organic revenue growth in 2005 benefited from rate increases at our California and Texas utilities and from an increase in the number of customer connections at our New Mexico and Texas utilities. New operations and maintenance contracts, and higher billing rates and expanded services under certain existing contracts fueled organic revenue growth for our Services Group in 2005. We pursue selected acquisitions. We pursue selected acquisitions that fit our long-term growth goals in both the Utility and Services Groups. We seek acquisitions that contribute to our vision of a vertically integrated company with product and service offerings that compliment each other. To pursue this strategy, we seek acquisitions that: • increase our operating results; • expand our business within our geographic footprint; • promote operating efficiencies through sharing of overhead costs and employee competencies in the region; and • facilitate the Services Group’s ability to supply needed services to Utility Group operations in the region. We also use our Services Group’s relationships with their regulated utility clients to identify possible acquisitions for our Utility Group. In recent years, we have completed eight acquisitions pursing this strategy. For example, in 2005, our Services Group acquired a contract operations company in Alabama which led to our Utility Group’s acquisition of one of its clients, a wastewater collection and treatment system. This acquisition expanded our presence in the Southeastern United States and introduced us to the Birmingham, Alabama area. Another example is an acquisition we made in 2004 of a water and wastewater testing laboratory. This acquisition allowed us to expand our capacity and expertise in the field enabling us to provide these services to other companies within our Services and Utility Groups. While we work diligently to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions, we also continuously evaluate our existing businesses for long-term strategic fit. As part of this strategic evaluation in 2005, we decided to sell our subsidiary that provided utility submetering and billing and collection services to multi- family residential properties. We concluded that the growth opportunities involving our core competencies of operating and managing water and wastewater facilities exceeded those of the submetering business as changes in the utility submetering market had reduced our ability to grow the business profitably without a significant capital investment. For additional information about our acquisition and disposition activities, see “—Acquisitions and Dispositions.” 2 KEY BUSINESS SEGMENTS Group revenues for the three years ended December 31, 2005 were as follows: Revenues by Business Segment Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except percentage data) Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Utility Group $ 78,884 39 % $ 69,420 39 % $ 56,933 34 % Services Group 124,297 61 % 110,175 61 % 109,750 66 % Total revenues $ 203,181 100 % $ 179,595 100 % $ 166,683 100 % UTILITY GROUP—DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS, SERVICES AND REGULATION California Our regulated public water utility in California, Suburban Water Systems, produces and supplies water for residential, business, industrial and public authority use and for fire protection service under the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”). Our California utility service area contains a population of about 311,000 people in an area of approximately 43 square miles within Los Angeles and Orange counties. Our California utility, or its predecessor entities, have supplied water since approximately 1907. From the mid-1950s to the late 1960s, our operations expanded rapidly as most of our service area was converted from agricultural use to residential, business and industrial use. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water connections that our California utility served as of the end of each of the past three years: California Utility—Number of Water Connections by Classification Water Connections as of December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Residential 70,955 70,908 70,822 Business and commercial 2,994 2,980 3,006 Other 1,221 1,189 1,199 Total water connections 75,170 75,077 75,027 During 2005, our California utility’s annual revenues were 73% from sales to residential connections, 17% from sales to business and industrial connections, and 10% from sales to other connections. Our California utility provides water both by pumping water from wells we own and by purchasing water from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (“MWD”), a governmental agency, and other sources. The wells owned and operated by our California utility pump water from two of the major groundwater basins in the Southern California coastal watershed: the Main San Gabriel Basin (the “Main Basin”) and the Central Basin. Our rights to pump water from the Main and Central Basins are fully adjudicated under California law, and these adjudications establish our right to produce water at levels and at a cost prescribed each year by the Watermaster Boards (the “Boards”) that manage the Main and Central Basins. Our California utility is also allowed to produce water from the Main and Central Basins in excess of the amount prescribed by the Boards, but when such excess production occurs, an additional payment is required to provide for the replenishment of the water supply. As the water levels in the Main and Central Basins increase or decrease, the Boards may adjust the prescribed production levels beyond which we are required to make payments for replenishment of the water supply. 3 In “—Environmental Matters” below, we discuss certain groundwater issues impacting the Main Basin. In 2001, we were required to remove some of our wells from service due to these issues. This resulted in our California utility purchasing increasing amounts of water from the MWD and other sources. The percentage of water supply purchased from external sources at our California Utility is as follows: California Utility—Water Supply Purchased from External Sources Years ended December 31, Percent Purchased 2001 46 % 2002 72 % 2003 67 % 2004 54 % 2005 50 % Under an agreement made in early 2002, we have been reimbursed for almost all costs of purchasing water needed to replace lost production as a result of the Main Basin contamination issues. We expect such reimbursement to continue until completion of remediation. See “—Environmental Matters” below for additional information. Our California utility owns 16 wells and 32 reservoirs. We believe that we are able to purchase or produce adequate water to serve our current customer base and manage reasonable growth from new customers. In recent years, the growth of our California utility has been limited to extensions into new subdivisions along the periphery of its service area. There is little undeveloped land available for new business, industrial construction or residential growth in the California service area. As a result, we do not anticipate a significant increase in the number of connections in our current service area. Although our utility service areas in California are not likely to experience significant connection growth, our California utility operations are capital intensive. Significant capital expenditures are necessary for the renovation and replacement of our facilities in California. Cash for capital expenditures is generated from California utility operations, periodic debt financing and bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water. Our California utility also receives contributions in aid of construction from developers, governmental agencies, municipalities or individuals to assist in the cost of facility development. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, capital expenditures in California were $9.5 million, $9.3 million and $8.8 million, respectively. Of these amounts, our California utility received capital contributions and advances from developers of $1.0 million, $5.6 million, and $3.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, to assist in paying for the capital expenditures. The CPUC regulates the rates and operations of our utility subsidiary in California. Under current CPUC practices, California customer water rates may be changed through general rate cases or by offsets for certain rate base and expense items. Since September 30, 2002, the California Public Utilities Code has required that CPUC-regulated water utilities file general rate cases every three years. General rate cases require formal proceedings with the CPUC in which overall rate structure, expenses and rate base are examined by CPUC staff. Historically, rate proceedings have required approximately 12 months from the time an application is filed to the CPUC’s authorization of new rates. Our California utility made a general rate case filing on April 2, 2002 and was granted an average 17% increase in rates effective May 28, 2003. The most recent general rate case application was filed in June, 2005 and is expected to be effective in mid 2006. In addition to a general rate increase, the CPUC typically provides for step increases in the second and third years. The step increases are intended to compensate for projected expense increases. Prior to their approval, step increases are subject to verification that pro forma earnings levels have not exceeded the amounts authorized in the general rate proceeding. Under prior CPUC procedures, allowable step increases were predetermined in general rate case decisions. Under the Commission’s current interim rate case plan which was issued in June 2004, step increases, now referred to as escalation year increases, are no longer predetermined, but rather are partly subject to inflationary indices in those later years. Escalation year increases are still subject to pro forma earnings tests as before. 4 The CPUC previously allowed water utilities to defer recognition of certain expense increases which were beyond our control through the use of balancing accounts. Those expenses included costs for purchased water, purchased power and pump taxes. Prior to November 29, 2001, the CPUC allowed balancing accounts in the income statements of water utilities, with a corresponding liability or asset on the balance sheet. However, the CPUC has changed this policy by eliminating the use of balancing accounts after November 29, 2001. In 2002 our California water utility recorded a balancing account receivable of $2.3 million, representing the difference between actual water production costs incurred and CPUC-adopted water production costs. On July 8, 2004, the CPUC issued a decision that allows our water utility in California to collect the $2.3 million balancing account and an additional under-collection of $0.7 million for a total of $3.0 million. The CPUC decision provides for us to recover the settlement amount through a surcharge billed to customers. Currently, when actual water production costs exceed CPUC-adopted levels, the costs are expensed as incurred. Such costs are tracked in a memorandum account for potential future recovery. Texas Our regulated public water utilities in Texas provide water supply and sewage collection and treatment services to approximately 29,700 connections for residential, commercial and irrigation use and, in some areas, for fire protection service under the jurisdiction of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”). We also own a small regulated public water utility in Oklahoma which is operated as part of our Texas utilities. Our service areas in Texas are broadly dispersed throughout the state covering about 4,000 square miles, including the Dallas, Fort Worth, Houston and Austin areas. Our service areas are highly fragmented and are comprised of 89 separate water systems serving a population of about 98,000 people in an area of approximately 37 square miles, most of which is largely undeveloped. These service areas are experiencing continued real estate development, and we expect the number of connections to continue growing in 2006. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water connections served by our Texas utilities as of the end of each of the most recent three years: Texas Utilities—Number of Water Connections by Classification Water Connections as of December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Residential 29,521 28,199 5,925 Business and commercial 228 206 156 Total water connections 29,749 28,405 6,081 In July 2004, we acquired 86 water systems in Texas which we operate as Monarch Utilities. As of the date of acquisition, Monarch Utilities served approximately 21,000 water connections and 3,500 wastewater connections. We look to continue to make strategic acquisitions of profitable utilities within our geographic footprint, thereby expanding our presence in a region and gaining economies of scale. For example, in 2005 we acquired a small utility serving approximately 370 connections in close proximity to our Monarch Utility service area. Our Texas utilities own or have rights to 221 wells and 344 reservoirs in addition to distribution, collection and treatment facilities. We believe that we have adequate capacity to serve our existing customer base in Texas as well as reasonable growth from new customers. As we expect customer growth to continue in our Texas service areas, we may have to increase the water supply capacity of our Texas utilities through a combination of outside water purchases and the construction of additional wells. One of our Texas utilities has long-term agreements to purchase water from the cities of Austin and Pflugerville, Texas. Because our Texas utility service areas are also in locations of customer growth, these operations are capital intensive. Cash for capital expenditures is generated from Texas operations, periodic debt financing, bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water, and contributions and advances received from developers. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our capital expenditures in Texas were $19.8 million, $12.4 million, $11.1 million, respectively. Of these amounts, our Texas utilities received contributions from developers of $1.7 million, $1.8 million, and $0.6 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 5 The TCEQ regulates the rates and operations of our Texas utility subsidiaries. One of our Texas utilities filed for a general rate increase in June 2001, and new rates became effective in January 2002. Monarch Utilities received authorization for a rate increase in October 2004 and benefited from a step increase in October 2005. We expect to file for an increase in rates at one of our Texas utilities in 2006. Our other utilities are not currently seeking increased rates; however, regulatory changes concerning water quality, future construction expenditures and increased operating expenses may result in future requests for rate increases. New Mexico Our regulated public water utility in New Mexico provides water supply and sewage collection services for residential, commercial and irrigation use and for fire protection service under jurisdiction of the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission (“NMPRC”). Our New Mexico utility service area is located in the northwest part of the City of Albuquerque and in the northern portion of Bernalillo County, and contains a population of approximately 50,000 people in an area of approximately 34 square miles. Approximately 36% of the area has been developed. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water connections served by our New Mexico utility as of the end of each of the most recent three years: New Mexico Utility—Number of Water Connections by Classification Water Connections as of December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Residential 14,696 13,400 12,108 Business and commercial 832 780 723 Other 143 131 118 Total water connections 15,671 14,311 12,949 Our New Mexico utility has grown from approximately 800 connections at the time of its acquisition in 1969 to over 15,500 connections. Most of this growth has resulted from the extension of water services and sewage collection services into new residential subdivisions and new commercial development. During 2005, we added 1,360 new water connections and 1,327 new wastewater connections in New Mexico. Because of the continuing real estate development in our service area, we expect continued connection growth in 2006. During 2005, 66% our revenues in New Mexico were from sales to residential connections and 34% of our revenues were from sales to commercial and industrial connections. Our New Mexico utility owns six wells and five reservoirs, and we believe that we have adequate water capacity to serve our current customer base as well as reasonable growth from new customers. The wells that we own and operate in New Mexico produce water from the Rio Grande Underground Basin. We have purchased, and plan to continue evaluating opportunities to purchase additional water rights in New Mexico. As we expect customer growth to continue in our New Mexico service area, we may have to increase our water supply capacity through additional well construction. Our New Mexico utility has established an emergency supply of water available through an interconnection with another water purveyor, for use in the case of a temporary interruption in our New Mexico water supply. Because our New Mexico utility service area has continued to experience customer growth, our operations are capital intensive. Cash for capital expenditures is generated from New Mexico operations, periodic debt financing, bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water, and contributions and advances received from developers. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our capital expenditures in New Mexico were $11.9 million, $9.2 million, and $9.6 million, respectively. Of these amounts, our New Mexico utility received capital contributions from developers of $5.6 million, $6.3 million, and $8.6 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The NMPRC regulates the rates and operations of our utility subsidiary in New Mexico. Requests for rate increases, typically based on historical costs, must be submitted to the NMPRC. We have not requested a general water rate increase during the past several years and at this time we do not expect we will request an increase for the next year or so. 6 Seasonality Our Utility Group water revenues are seasonal because rainfall and weather conditions affect water sales. The second and third quarters of each year typically account for the highest volume of water consumption when weather tends to be hot and dry. Utility Group wastewater revenues are generally not affected by seasonality. The results of operations for one quarter do not indicate results to be expected in another quarter. Drought conditions may result in consumer conservation efforts or water shortages, which can reduce consumption. Drought conditions may also result in increased water costs to us, which could adversely affect our profitability. Conversely, unusually wet conditions may result in decreased customer demand, lower revenues and lower profit in our utility operations. Environmental Matters One of the water sources for our California water utility has been affected by the presence of certain groundwater contaminants. These contaminants consist mainly of chemicals disposed of by various industrial companies in the 1940s and 1950s. In 2001 and 2002, this contamination necessitated the shutdown of a number of our wells, and we purchased replacement water at a cost substantially higher than the cost of water pumped from our own wells. The incremental and unreimbursed costs of purchasing replacement water and related energy costs in 1999, 2000 and 2001 related to this contamination were $0.1 million, $0.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Prior to May 2002, these costs were recorded as operating expenses and reduced our operating income. In May 2002, a settlement agreement was reached between some of the parties allegedly responsible for the contamination (“Cooperating Respondents”) and our California water utility. As a result of this agreement, we recorded income in 2002 of $1.7 million, for reimbursement of certain water and energy costs, incurred from the contamination. Since our groundwater contamination-related costs incurred prior to the agreement were not included in our water rate calculations, the reimbursement offset costs that our utility had previously incurred, resulting in no affect on ratepayers. As a result of this settlement agreement, we have received payments during the last three years, and we expect to continue to receive payments until completion of remediation. These payments represent the incremental cost of purchasing water over the cost that would have been incurred by us to pump water from our wells had they not been shut down as a result of contamination and excluded costs covered in the $1.7 million settlement discussed above. The settlement agreement provided for ongoing reimbursement of our excess water costs and we bill and collect this reimbursement monthly. These monthly reimbursements are recorded as a reduction to operating expenses. The reimbursements were $3.4 million, $3.3 million, $4.0 million and $3.2 million during 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The settlement agreement also provides for contributions by the Cooperating Respondents for construction of new wells and interconnections with nearby water sources. These contributions were $0.5 million, $0.7 million, $2.5 million and $4.4 million for 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and were recorded as contributions in aid of construction. Water Quality Regulations The water supplies available to our utilities in California, New Mexico, and Texas are subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) under the 1996 Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“US Act”). The US Act establishes uniform minimum national water quality standards, as well as specification of the types of treatment processes to be used for public drinking water. The EPA, as mandated under the US Act, issues regulations that require, among other things, disinfection of drinking water, specification of maximum contaminant levels (“MCLs”) and filtration of surface water supplies. Our California water supplies are also subject to regulation by the Office of Drinking Water of the California Department of Health Services (“DOHS”) under the California Safe Drinking Water Act (“Cal Act”). The Cal Act and the rules of the DOHS are similar to the US Act and the mandates of the EPA, except that in many instances the requirements of the DOHS are more stringent than those of the EPA. In addition to the EPA and the DOHS water quality regulations, our California water utility is also subject to water quality standards that may be set by the 7 CPUC. The California Supreme Court has ruled that the CPUC has the authority to set standards that are more stringent than those set by the EPA and the DOHS. The water supplied by our New Mexico utility is subject to regulation by the EPA and by the State of New Mexico Environment Department – Drinking Water Bureau. The water supplied by our Texas utilities is subject to regulation by the EPA and by the TCEQ. In February 2002, the EPA set a more stringent arsenic standard in drinking water from 50 parts per billion to 10 parts per billion, which must have been fully met by January of 2006. At the present time, our water sources in California and Texas are in compliance with the new standards. The DOHS is holding discussions that could result in a more stringent arsenic standard. We cannot predict the impact that such changes in the arsenic standard would have on our California and Texas water utility operations. If the arsenic standard remains at 10 parts per billion, we do not expect it to have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations in California and Texas. Our New Mexico utility became subject to a new EPA arsenic standard of 10 (instead of 50) parts per billion effective January 2006. To meet this new standard, we took actions that included the construction of two arsenic removal treatment plants during the past year. A capital expenditure of $2.6 million was required at our New Mexico facilities in order to comply with the new arsenic standard and we expect that the cost of water will increase as a result of the treatment requirements. If the cost of complying with this new standard has an adverse impact on our New Mexico operations, we will consider making a request to the NMPRC for recovery of these costs. While the NMPRC has previously allowed the recovery of similar costs through higher rates, we cannot assure you that costs incurred or capital spent will ultimately be recoverable from the ratepayers. Costs associated with testing of our water supplies in California, Texas and New Mexico have increased and are expected to further increase as regulatory agencies adopt additional monitoring requirements. We believe that costs associated with the additional monitoring and testing of our water supplies will be recoverable from ratepayers through future rate increases. However, we cannot assure you that water sources currently available to our utilities will meet future EPA, or state regulatory requirements, that recovery of additional costs will be allowed, or that new or revised monitoring requirements will not necessitate additional capital expenditures in the future. We believe that future incremental costs of complying with governmental regulations, including capital expenditures, will be recoverable through increased rates. However, we cannot assure you that recovery of such costs will be allowed. Both the EPA and the state regulatory agencies have put into effect regulations and other pronouncements that require periodic testing and sampling of water to ensure that only permissible levels below the prescribe MCLs of organic and volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”), herbicides, pesticides, radionuclides, and inorganic substances are present in water supplied to the public. Our water utilities operators regularly sample and monitor the quality of water being distributed throughout the system. Our utility personnel conduct sampling, testing and inspections at the intervals, locations and frequencies required by EPA and state regulations. Water samples from throughout our water systems are tested regularly by state-certified laboratories for bacterial contamination, chemical contaminant content and for the presence of pollutants and contaminants for which MCLs have been put into effect. The test results are sent to the respective state regulatory agencies. Disinfection and other types of treatment are applied to water supplies as required or needed to safeguard against bacteriological, chemical and other water contaminants. In addition, each of our utilities provides its customers with an annual water quality report that, among other matters, informs them of the sources and quality of the water being provided. In addition to water sampling and testing performed by our California utility personnel, independent engineers retained by the Boards conduct sampling and testing for certain pollutants such as VOCs. The results of the sampling and testing are made available to the DOHS and all water purveyors that produce water from the Main Basin. The cost of such sampling and testing is covered by assessments to the producers in this basin. Several water and wastewater systems at one of our Texas utilities are in violation of MCLs and other state regulatory requirements. The TCEQ and customers in affected areas have been advised of the violations. We have constructed new treatment facilities, changed water sources, and/or taken other steps during the past year to address these compliance issues. We are working with the TCEQ and outside consultants to address the remaining issues and bring the affected systems into full compliance. 8 Since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, there has been heightened concern regarding the vulnerability of drinking water systems. Drinking water systems were identified as critical infrastructures and potential terrorist targets. In compliance with the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Response Act of 2002, PL 107-88, our Utility Group assessed the vulnerability of our water systems to terrorist attack. This vulnerability assessment was used to determine the risks posed to the water supply system operations, treatment, and distribution systems; identify the water systems’ vulnerabilities; provide a prioritized plan for security upgrades, modifications of operational procedures, and/or policy changes to mitigate identified risks to critical assets; and provide a basis for comparing the cost of protection against the risks posed. While it is impossible to protect or eliminate the vulnerability of all of our drinking water systems, our utilities considered and are implementing improvements in security that we believe can make it more difficult for attacks to succeed and can lessen the impact of attacks that may occur. We believe that water supplied by our California utility meets all current requirements of the US Act, the Cal Act and the regulations put into effect under the related legislation and CPUC standards. We also believe that water supplied by our New Mexico utility and our Texas utilities complies with all current requirements of the EPA and the respective state regulatory agencies, except as noted above. However, we cannot assure you that water sources currently available to our water utilities will meet future EPA or state regulatory requirements, or that such future requirements will not necessitate future capital expenditures by our water utilities. Competition Our regulated utility subsidiaries in California, New Mexico and Texas each operate under a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity granted by the CPUC, NMPRC and TCEQ, respectively. Our utilities are also regulated by other state and local governmental authorities having jurisdiction over water and wastewater service and other aspects of our water utility businesses. Our Utility Group water businesses are dependent upon maintaining these certificates and upon various governmental and court decisions affecting our water rights and service areas. Alabama, California, New Mexico and Texas state laws provide that no public or private agency can install facilities within the service area of a public utility in order to compete with it, except upon payment of just compensation for all damages incurred by the public utility. Under the state laws of California and New Mexico, municipalities and certain other public agencies have the right to acquire private water utility plants and systems within their territorial limits by condemnation but must pay fair value for the condemned system. We are not aware of any proceeding for the condemnation of any portion of our regulated utilities. SERVICES GROUP—DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS, SERVICES AND REGULATION Contractual Relationships Our Services Group has over 630 contracts. The majority of these contracts fall into three categories: • Municipal Utility District contracts; • Operations and maintenance contracts; and • Construction management contracts. Municipal Utility District (“MUD”) Contracts. A MUD is created under the rules of the TCEQ to provide water supply, wastewater treatment and drainage services to areas where existing municipal services are not available. Our Services Group has MUD contracts in the suburbs of Houston, Austin and El Paso, Texas. Under a typical MUD contract, we bill a monthly base fee to the MUD to provide a specified level of services. We typically provide water and wastewater facility operations and maintenance services, equipment maintenance and repair, billing and collection services. We also provide state-certified water and wastewater laboratory analysis for an additional fee. We usually bill for any additional services provided beyond the basic contract on a time-and-materials basis as such services are rendered. Most contracts provide for an increase in the monthly base fee as the number of customer connections increases and do not generally include inflation adjustments. Changes in prices are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. Generally, MUD contracts are cancelable with 30 to 60 day prior notice by either party. Our experience indicates that, with high-quality service and strong focus on client satisfaction, MUD relationships can last for many years. 9 Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) Contracts. O&M contracts are agreements with cities, private entities and investor-owned utilities (including Utility Group affiliates) that provide specific services such as facility operation and maintenance, meter reading, customer billing and collection, municipal pubic works services and/or management, or management of entire water or wastewater systems. Under a typical O&M contract, our Services Group subsidiaries charge a fee that covers a specified level of services. Services are typically provided evenly throughout the contract period and are billed on a monthly basis. Our O&M contracts limit our liability in the event of a major system failure or catastrophic event. If we provide services beyond the scope of a contract, we bill for the additional services. For example, if a major system failure or catastrophic event occurred as the result of flooding, hurricanes, earthquakes, electrical strikes or vandalism, the facility owner usually asks us to provide additional services on a time-and-materials basis. Most O&M contracts provide for annual increases based upon inflation and we typically have the right to increase our fixed operations fee if the system experiences customer connection growth beyond a specified level. We may pay certain costs such as chemical or power expenses. Usually, however, the contracts provide reimbursement for these costs. In most cases, O&M contracts are cancelable by either party only upon a specific breach of contract. O&M contracts have terms ranging from month-to-month to up to 20 years. We have a strong focus on customer service and client satisfaction and our experience has been that over 95% of our O&M contracts are renewed upon expiration. Construction and Construction Management Projects. Our Services Group enters into contracts pursuant to which we provide construction and construction management services for water and wastewater facility development, improvement and expansion projects. Under the terms of certain of these contracts, we may bear all or a significant portion of the risk of cost overruns, or incur additional costs or penalties for failing to meet project completion deadlines or minimum performance standards. In September 2002, we successfully bid a project to design, build, finance and operate a $23.0 million reverse osmosis water treatment plant in the city of San Juan Capistrano, California, for the Capistrano Valley Water District (“CVWD”). The project included the drilling of several new wells and the installation of associated water lines. Construction was completed during 2005 and final acceptance of the project by the CVWD is expected in 2006. In addition, the CVWD awarded us a 20-year $20.0 million contract to operate and maintain the treatment plant after completion of construction. Our Services Group has contracted with our Texas utilities and our New Mexico utility to perform operating services, normal maintenance and construction work and, in addition, to manage capital projects for these utilities. These contracts were established utilizing terms and conditions equivalent to prevailing industry rates for similar work performed by our Services Group for non-affiliated customers. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, we recognize a profit on sales to regulated affiliates and do not eliminate the intercompany profit when the sales price is reasonable and it is probable that, through the rate making process, future revenue approximately equal to the sales price will result from the regulated affiliate’s use of the services. Growth and Backlog During the past three years, our Services Group has increased revenues and service areas by adding new contracts and construction projects, pursuing renewal and expansion of existing contracts and by making acquisitions. Revenues included in backlog are generally realized over a multi-year period. The O&M contracts signed by our Services Group typically have durations of three to five years, and the uncompleted remaining portion of these contracts is reflected in the backlog. MUD contracts are assumed to have a 36-month remaining term, consistent with our experience, and are included in the backlog computation using an assumed 36-month term. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, our Services Group backlog was $311 million and $324 million, respectively. 10 Seasonality Our Services Group operations are generally not seasonal but can be affected by severe weather and rainfall. In general, heavy rainfall or storm conditions may limit our ability to perform certain billable work such as pipeline maintenance, manhole rehabilitation and other outdoor services. Severe weather conditions may also result in additional labor and material costs to us that may not necessarily be recoverable from our various firm price contracts. Revenues of our billing and collection business are generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations. Competition Competition in the MUD, O&M and construction management portions of our business includes a number of significantly larger companies that provide services on a national and international basis, as well as regional and local competitors. New contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. Cities themselves are also competitors in O&M operations, since we must overcome reluctance on the part of city officials to outsource their water and wastewater services. Although industry renewal rates tend to be high, the contract water and wastewater management business is very competitive, and we cannot assure you that our Services Group will be able to increase or sustain its market share. Regulation Our Services Group prices are not subject to regulation. However, because we provide contract services which include the operation and maintenance of water supply and wastewater facilities owned by cities, public agencies, municipal utility districts and private entities (including our own Utility Group affiliates), we are subject to state and federal regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS Acquisitions During the five years ended December 31, 2005, we have acquired the stock or assets of eight businesses that fit our long-term growth goals for our Utility and Services Groups. Those acquisitions are summarized below. Utility Group Acquisitions Windermere Minority Interest. We have owned 80% of Windermere Utility Company since October 2000. Windermere is our water and wastewater utility located in the Austin, Texas area. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement we entered into with the minority stockholder at the time of acquisition, we acquired the remaining 20% of Windermere in December 2005 by issuing 450,644 shares of our common stock which had an aggregate market value of $6.0 million as stipulated in the rights agreement. Midway Water. In October 2005, we acquired all of the stock of Midway Water Utilities, Inc., a small water utility serving approximately 370 connections located in Denton County, Texas, for $0.5 million in cash and $0.2 million of assumed liabilities. Midway will be combined with Monarch Utilities, one of our other Texas-based utilities, allowing us to achieve operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. Southwest Water Alabama. In September 2005, we acquired the assets of a wastewater collection and treatment system located in Shelby County, Alabama, which we operate as Southwest Water Alabama, for $8.6 million in cash. The acquisition allowed us to expand our regulated utility footprint into Alabama. Novus Utilities, a contract operations company in Birmingham Alabama we acquired in March 2005, has operated this facility since 1992 and was instrumental in the acquisition process. This synergy creates operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. 11 Monarch Utilities. In July 2004, we acquired a Texas utility consisting of a collection of rural regulated water systems and wastewater collection and treatment systems serving approximately 21,000 water connections and 3,500 wastewater connections from Tecon Water Holdings, L.P. and renamed the utility Monarch Utilities, Inc. The acquisition expanded our regulated operations in the state of Texas. Monarch is operated by our Services Group subsidiary ECO Resources, allowing us to obtain operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. The aggregate purchase price was $66 million, comprised of $48 million in cash and the assumption of $18 million in debt. Services Group Acquisitions Novus Utilities. In March 2005, we acquired the assets of a Birmingham, Alabama-based contract operations company we operate as Novus Utilities, Inc. This acquisition increased our market presence in the southeastern United States and introduced us to the Birmingham, Alabama area. We paid $2.7 million in cash and assumed $1.1 million of liabilities, which includes $0.6 million of debt, in connection with this acquisition. ACE Technologies. In September 2004, our Southwest Environmental Laboratories subsidiary acquired the assets of Houston, Texas-based ACE Technologies, Inc., a water and wastewater testing laboratory for $1.2 million in the form of a promissory note payable to the former owner which we paid off in 2005. This acquisition allowed us to expand our capacity and expertise in the water and wastewater quality testing field. Aqua Services. In November 2002, we acquired the assets of a multi-state contract operations company which we operate under the name Aqua Services LP for $10.3 million in cash and $4.5 million of assumed liabilities. Aqua Services is based in Houston, Texas and also services clients in Colorado and South Dakota. CDC Maintenance. In December 2001, we acquired substantially all of the assets of CDC/Construction Design Company, LTD., a Houston, Texas-based company with experience in underground water and wastewater utility maintenance and manhole rehabilitation. The aggregate purchase price was $3.2 million, which consisted of $0.2 million in cash and $3.0 million of notes payable to the former owner. In addition to providing services to its own customer base, CDC also provides services to some of our other Texas-based Services Group companies. OpTech. In August 2001, we purchased 90% of the outstanding stock of Operations Technology, Inc. a provider of contract water and wastewater and public works services in the southeastern United States, for a purchase price of $8.2 million. The purchase price consisted of cash payments of $3.5 million in August 2001 and $0.4 million in January 2002, promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $3.0 million and shares of our common stock with a market value of $1.3 million at the time of acquisition. The acquisition of OpTech enhanced our contract operations business by extending our client base to the southeast portion of the United States and expanding our range of contract services to include public works functions such as storm water drainage, system maintenance and street repair. The minority stockholder has the right to require us to purchase the remaining 10% of OpTech for the greater of $1.0 million or a formula-determined amount based on the profitability of OpTech. In February 2006, the minority stockholder elected to exercise this option. As a result, we will acquire the stock based on the formula determined amount which will be slightly more than the $1.0 million minimum amount. The purchase of the shares is expected to occur in March 2006. Other Acquisitions. During 2004, we also completed, through our Master Tek subsidiary, several acquisitions in the submetering business. These acquisitions were structured as asset purchases, primarily of account contracts, account lists, software and other assets. Under the purchase agreements, we acquired approximately 136,000 active billing and collection units at a cost of $3.8 million in cash and $1.5 million in notes payable. We sold Master Tek during 2005 as further described below. 12 Disposition of Master Tek In June 2005, we sold Master Tek International, Inc, our subsidiary that provided utility submetering and billing and collection services to multi- family residential properties. We elected to sell Master Tek because of changes in the submetering market which would have required significant capital investments in future years. We believe growth opportunities involving our core competencies of operating and managing water and wastewater facilities exceed those of the submetering business. We sold Master Tek for $12.2 million in cash. We received $11.1 million in cash at closing and $1.1 million was placed into an escrow account which will be released in March 2006 upon final determination of customary representations and warranties. We used the proceeds from the sale and intend to use the proceeds from the escrow account, when received, to repay borrowings under our bank line of credit. Master Tek contributed $8.4 million of revenue during 2004 and $3.7 million during the first six months of 2005 prior to the sale. As a result of the sale, Master Tek is reflected as a discontinued operation in this report. The sale of this business, which was part of our Services Group, is not expected to affect the operations of our remaining businesses in the Services Group or our Utility Group. OTHER INFORMATION Credit Concentration We have no individual customers who accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, or whose loss would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated or operating segment revenues. Intellectual Property The primary focus of the water and wastewater management industry is customer service, and the industry does not rely heavily on technological or proprietary manufacturing processes. We do not conduct significant research and development activities. Except for certain logos, trademarks and artwork used in marketing, we have no other patents, licenses or trademarks. Employees At December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 1,600 people. Approximately 1,450 people were employed in our Services Group, 125 were employed in our Utility Group and 25 people in our corporate office. Approximately 1% of our employees are represented under a collective bargaining agreement. We believe relations with our employees are positive. Dividend History During the past 20 years, Southwest Water has paid quarterly a cash dividend. In addition, we have also declared stock dividends or stock splits, paid in the form of stock dividends, annually over the last ten years. For specific information relative to cash and stock dividends paid during 2005 and 2004, see “Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” COMPANY INFORMATION We make available free of charge through our internet website our press releases, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website also contains our Code of Ethical Conduct for all employees and our Code of Ethics for Directors and Executive Officers. Our address is: Southwest Water Company; 624 South Grand Avenue, Suite 2900, Los Angeles, California 90017-3782. Our telephone number is (213) 929-1800 and our Internet website address is “www.swwc.com.” 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in two business segments: our Utility Group and our Services Group. There are separate risk factors associated with each. UTILITY GROUP OPERATIONS Weather Conditions. Rainfall and weather conditions affect the financial results of our Utility Group. • Most water use occurs during the second and third quarters of each year when weather tends to be hot and dry. Depending on the degree of heat and lack of rain, our marginal costs of water may exceed our marginal revenues as we use higher-cost purchased water to meet customer demand. Therefore, while our revenues may increase, we may experience lower profit margins during periods of peak demand. • Drought or unusually wet conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and profitability. During a drought, we may experience both lower revenues due to consumer conservation efforts and higher water costs due to supply shortages. Since a fairly high percentage of our water is used to water yards and fill pools, unusually wet conditions could result in decreased customer demand, lower revenues and lower profit. Consequently, the results of operations for one quarter should not be used to predict the results of future quarters. Regulatory Environment. Changes in the regulatory environment, including restrictions on the rates we are allowed to charge customers, may adversely affect our results of operations. • Our utility subsidiaries are subject to regulation by governmental agencies which establish the rates that we may charge our customers. These rates are intended, in concept, to permit our utilities to recover operating costs and earn a rate of return on our investment in utility plant and equipment. Each state regulatory agency sets the rules and policies that allow our utilities to file applications to increase rates as expenses or investment needs increase. These rules and policies may require that we estimate future expenses or may require that we incur specific expenses before there can be a change in rates. As a result, our revenues and earnings may fluctuate depending on the accuracy of our estimates, timing of our investments or expenses, or other factors. For example, in many instances we use electric pumps. Electric power costs in California have been volatile. While we intend to use energy-efficient techniques and appropriate equipment, we may seek an increase in rates. If we were unable to obtain a rate increase that completely offsets the affect of higher power costs, we would realize a decrease in our profitability. • The regulatory agencies may change their rules and policies which may adversely impact our profitability. In some states, regulators are elected by popular vote, and the results of elections may change the rules and policies of the agency. Changes in rules and policies, including policies allowing our Services Group to provide operations and maintenance, construction and construction management services to our regulated utilities at fair market value, may adversely impact our operating results. Water Contamination. Contamination of our water sources by third parties may adversely affect our operations. • Our water sources are subject to contamination from sewage spills, hazardous materials leaks, or similar events. We may not be able to recover costs incurred or revenues lost due to such contamination. Additionally, these events could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. Natural Disasters or Terrorist Activities. We own assets in areas that historically have experienced natural disasters or that may be disrupted by terrorist activities. • Some of our utility operations are located in areas that historically have experienced earthquakes and hurricanes as well as other natural disasters. While we maintain insurance policies to help reduce our financial exposure, a significant event could adversely impact our ability to deliver water. • Our utility assets could be targeted by terrorists seeking to disrupt services to our customers. 14 Environmental Risks. We are subject to environmental risks and may not be able to provide an adequate supply of water to our customers. • Improved detection technology, increasingly stringent regulatory requirements, and heightened consumer awareness of water quality issues contribute to an environment of increased focus on water quality. • Even though we continuously treat and test our water supplies to ensure that the water we distribute complies with water quality standards, we cannot assure you that we will be able in the future to reduce contaminants in our wells to acceptable levels at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. • Standards that we must meet are constantly changing and becoming more stringent. For example, in February 2002, the EPA lowered the arsenic standard in drinking water from 50 parts per billion to 10 parts per billion. To meet this new standard, we took actions that included constructing two arsenic removal treatment plants costing $2.6 million and we expect that the resulting treatment requirements will increase our cost of the water we provide. While we may request rate increases to recover these additional costs and the cost of complying with standards enacted in the future, if any, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining those rate increases. Water Sources. We have no assured access to water. • Each of our utilities obtains its water from various sources. The preferred source is pumping water from aquifers within our service areas. In the event that our wells cannot meet the customer demand, we have the ability to purchase water from surrounding municipalities, agencies and other utilities. However, it usually costs us more to purchase water than to produce it. Furthermore, these alternative sources may not always have an adequate supply to sell us. • To date, we have been able to produce and purchase enough water to meet our current customer requirements in California. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to produce or purchase enough water to fully satisfy future customer demand in our California service area. For example, our California utility purchases water from the MWD, which receives water from the Colorado River. In 2003, the US Department of the Interior restricted the amount of water that California may receive from the Colorado River. This restriction may impact the amount of water that the MWD can sell to our California utility in the future. We are currently examining various options to increase our available water supply in California. These options include drilling new wells, adding connections to our existing MWD supply lines and constructing water treatment facilities. We cannot assure you that the results of drilling the wells will be successful, that we will be able to obtain necessary permits to add new supply lines and connections, or that we will be able to obtain regulatory or legislative approval to operate new water treatment facilities. • We can make no guarantee that we will always have access to an adequate supply of water that will meet all quality standards, or that the cost of our water will not adversely affect our operating results. SERVICES GROUP OPERATIONS Competition. We operate in a competitive market. • Our Services Group competes with several larger companies whose size, financial resources, customer base and technical expertise may restrict our ability to compete successfully for certain operations and maintenance contracts. • Due to the nature of our contract operations business, and to the very competitive nature of the market, we must accurately estimate the cost and profitability of each project while, at the same time, maintaining prices at a level low enough to compete with other companies. Our inability to achieve this balance could adversely impact our results of operations. Revenue Growth. Our revenue growth depends upon our ability to generate new as well as to renew operating contracts with cities, other agencies and municipal utility districts. • Because we are selling our services in a political environment, we are subject to changing trends and municipal preferences. Recent terrorist acts have affected some political viewpoints relative to outsourcing of water or wastewater utility services. In the United States, municipalities own and municipal employees operate the majority of water and wastewater systems. A significant portion of our 15 Services Group’s marketing and sales efforts is spent demonstrating the benefits of contract operations to elected officials and municipal authorities. The existing political environment means that decisions are based on many factors, not just economic factors. Weather Conditions. Events such as heavy rain, hurricanes, tornadoes and floods may affect our results of operations. • Our Services Group contract operations can be impacted by heavy rainfall which may limit our ability to perform certain billable work such as pipeline maintenance, manhole rehabilitation and other outdoor services. • Severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods, may result in additional labor and material costs that may not necessarily be recoverable under our firm, fixed-price O&M contracts, and may adversely impact our results of operations. Construction Contract Performance Risk. Services Group contracts for the design and construction of water and wastewater projects may expose us to certain completion and performance risks. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Certain Contractual Commitments and Indemnities.” • We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, design and construction contracts for water and wastewater facilities. These construction activities involve potential risks, including shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor relations disputes, weather interference, engineering, environmental, permitting or geological problems and unanticipated cost increases for reasons beyond our control. These issues could give rise to delays, cost overruns or performance deficiencies, or otherwise adversely affect the design, construction or operation of the project. To minimize our exposure to the risks associated with construction projects, we attempt to procure maximum price contracts from significant subcontractors, and secure performance and completion bonds from those subcontractors. • Certain of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, where we may bear all, or a significant portion of, the risk for cost overruns. Under these fixed-price contracts, our contract pricing is established in part based on fixed, firm subcontractor quotes or contracts and on cost and scheduling estimates. These estimates may be based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other issues. If these subcontractor quotations or cost estimates prove inaccurate, or if circumstances change, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. There can be no assurance that we can avoid additional costs under these types of contracts. Environmental and Water Quality Risks. Our Services Group is subject to environmental and water quality risks. • Our clients, municipalities or public agencies are the owners of the facilities that we operate under contract. These facilities must be operated in accordance with various federal and state water quality standards. We also handle certain hazardous materials at these facilities, such as chlorine gas and hydrogen sulfide. Any failures of our operation of the facilities, including sewage spills, noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous material leaks and spills, and similar events, could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. We cannot assure you that we will successfully manage these issues, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. Escalating Costs. Our operating costs, construction costs and costs of providing services may rise faster than our revenues. • Many of our contracts with municipalities include contractual price increases tied to national consumer price indices. However, our costs are subject to market conditions and other factors, which may increase significantly higher than a generalized price index. The largest component of our operating costs is made up of salaries and wages. These costs are impacted by the local supply and demand for qualified labor. Other large components of our costs are general insurance, workers compensation insurance, employee 16 benefits and health insurance costs. These costs may increase at rates higher than a price index and may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Contract Cancellations. Our operations and maintenance contracts may be canceled, reducing our revenues and backlog. Also, we may not secure new construction and construction management projects on a consistent basis, leading to fluctuations in revenues and backlog. • Our Service Group revenue backlog consists of new and existing contracts. We include new contracts in the backlog when we have a signed contract. Revenues included in our backlog may be realized over a multi-year period. The O&M contracts signed by our Services Group typically have durations of three to five years, and the uncompleted remaining portion of these existing contracts is reflected in the backlog. Although our Services Group tends to experience high renewal rates, municipalities and cities periodically change operators or terminate outsourcing at the end of a contract. The inability to renew existing contracts could have a material adverse impact on our Services Group. In addition, a municipality could cancel a long-term contract without notice. This would result in loss of revenues and operating profits and could involve us in litigation if a breach of contract occurs. OTHER RISK FACTORS Capital Resources. Our capital resources may restrict our ability to operate and expand our business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Certain Contractual Commitments and Indemnities.” • We anticipate that our available line of credit borrowing capacity, cash balances, cash flow generated from operations, and execution of additional financing alternatives will enable us to continue operating and expanding our business. We may be unable to renew our credit facilities when they expire. We may be unable to execute additional financing alternatives at terms that we find acceptable. If we were unable to renew our existing lines of credit, or if we were unable to execute additional financing alternatives, our capital spending would be reduced or delayed, and any future acquisitions would be delayed or eliminated. While we have the ability to take these actions, they could negatively impact our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. Debt Covenants. We are subject to debt covenants. • We are obligated to comply with specified debt covenants under certain of our loan and debt agreements. Failure to maintain compliance with these covenants could limit future borrowing, and we could face penalties, increased borrowing costs, litigation, acceleration of maturity schedules and cross default issues. Such actions by our creditors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Geographic Diversity. Our operations are subject to certain risks due to their location. • We own or operate water and wastewater facilities in numerous locations in numerous states and, consequently, we are subject to widely differing weather, political, water supply, labor supply, utility cost, regulatory, economic and other risks in the areas we service. We cannot control these risks. However, we believe that our broad geographic service area, while exposing us to these risks in numerous local markets, provides us a certain amount of geographical diversification against these risks at a consolidated company level. Internal Control Weaknesses. Internal control weaknesses could have an adverse effect on us. • As reported under Item 9A of our 2004 Form 10-K, our management concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. Management took steps to remediate the material weakness which resulted in an assessment that management maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Controls that function effectively today may become inadequate due to changes in conditions. • Insufficient internal controls could result in lack of compliance with contractual agreements, misstatements in our financial statements in amounts that could be material and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 17 Information Technology. We rely on a number of complex business systems that could malfunction. • Our businesses are dependent on several complex business systems that must function reliably in order for us to operate effectively. Among other things, system malfunctions could prevent us from operating or monitoring our facilities, billing accurately and timely analyzing financial results. Our profitability and cash flow could be impacted negatively in the event these systems do not operate effectively. Uninsured Risks. We retain certain risks not covered by our insurance policies. • We evaluate our risks and insurance coverage annually. Our evaluation considers the costs, risks and benefits of retaining versus insuring various risks as well as the availability of certain types of insurance coverage. Retained risks are associated with deductible limits, partial self-insurance programs and insurance policy coverage ceilings. We cannot assure you that we will not face uninsured losses pertaining to the risks we have retained or that such uninsured losses will not affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 