1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements since such statements speak only as of the date when made. Other than as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Southwest Water Company and its subsidiaries provide a broad range of services including water production, treatment and distribution; wastewater collection and treatment; utility operations and maintenance services; and utility infrastructure construction. We own regulated public utilities and also serve cities, utility districts and private companies under contract, serving a combined total of more than two million people. Our subsidiaries are segmented into two operating groups: our Utility Group and our Services Group. Within our Utility Group, we own and manage the operations of rate-regulated public water and/or wastewater utilities in Alabama, California, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, through which we serve water or provide wastewater services to residential, commercial and public authority customers. State and federal agencies issue regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters which affect these operations. The rates that we can charge for water and wastewater service are established and approved by state or local government agencies. Our Services Group provides water and wastewater facility operations and maintenance services, equipment maintenance and repair, sewer pipeline cleaning, billing and collection services, and state-certified water and wastewater laboratory analysis on a contract basis. The facilities operated by the Services Group are owned by cities, public agencies, municipal utility districts and private entities primarily in Alabama, California, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Dakota and Texas. While state and federal agencies issue regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters which affect our Services Group operations, the pricing of the services provided by our Services Group is not subject to government regulation. Southwest Water Company was incorporated in California in 1954 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1988. We maintain our corporate offices in Los Angeles, California. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our primary objective is to provide an essential product or service in such a way as to generate value for our clients, customers, employees and stockholders. We apply two principal strategies in our efforts to continue growing our business and improving our financial performance. 1 We work to enhance organic revenue growth. We grow our revenue organically in two principal ways. First, our operations are largely located in high population-growth states where the number of water and wastewater connections we serve increase as a factor of real estate development. We strategically look to operate in small to medium size cities that are experiencing population growth. Second, we also look to increase the number of contract services clients we serve as well as increasing the number of services performed under each contract. Our offerings include: · Water and wastewater system management; · construction management of water and wastewater systems; · water and wastewater certified laboratory services; · pipeline inspections; · refurbishment of manholes and sewer lines; · water meter replacement; · non-regulated wholesale water sales; · wastewater treatment services; and · municipal public works services and/or management. We pursue selected acquisitions. We pursue selected acquisitions that fit our long-term growth goals in both the Utility and Services Groups. To pursue this strategy, we seek acquisitions that: · increase our operating results; · expand our business within our geographic footprint; · provide access to high population growth markets; · promote operating efficiencies through sharing of overhead costs and employee competencies in the region; and · facilitate the Services Group’s ability to supply needed services to Utility Group operations in the region. In recent years, we have completed several Utility Group acquisitions as a direct result of our long-term relations built by our Services Group. For example, in February 2007, we acquired our first water and wastewater utility in northern Mississippi where our Services Group has operated for several years, providing us access to a new, high population growth market. In 2006, we acquired two utilities in the Austin, Texas area that had been operated by our Services Group for several years, thereby broadening our utility ownership and leveraging our existing resources in that region. In 2005, our Services Group acquired a contract operations company in Alabama which led to our Utility Group’s acquisition of one of its clients, a wastewater collection and treatment system. These acquisitions expanded our presence in the Southeastern United States and introduced us to the Birmingham, Alabama area. For additional information about our acquisition activities, see “—Acquisitions and Dispositions.” 2 BUSINESS SEGMENTS Revenues and gross profit, which we define as revenues less the related direct operating expenses, for the three years ended December 31, 2006 were as follows: Revenues and Gross Profit by Business Segment Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (In thousands, except percentage data) Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Revenues: Utility Group $ 86,321 39% $ 78,884 39% $ 69,420 39% Services Group 137,861 61% 124,297 61% 110,175 61% Total revenues $ 224,182 100% $ 203,181 100% $ 179,595 100% Gross Profit: Utility Group $ 38,770 67% $ 34,525 71% $ 28,841 76% Services Group 18,715 33% 14,396 29% 9,292 24% Total gross profit $ 57,485 100% $ 48,921 100% $ 38,133 100% You can find complete information about our business segments in Note 15 accompanying our consolidated financial statements included in this report. UTILITY GROUP—DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS, SERVICES AND REGULATION California Our regulated water utility in California, Suburban Water Systems, produces and supplies water for residential, business, industrial and public authority use under the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”). We do not provide wastewater collection or treatment services in California. Our California utility service area contains a population of more than 300,000 people in an area of approximately 42 square miles within Los Angeles and Orange counties. Our California utility, or its predecessor entities, have supplied water since approximately 1907. From the mid-1950s to the late 1960s, our operations expanded rapidly as most of our service area was converted from agricultural use to residential, business and industrial use. In recent years, the growth of our California utility has been limited to extensions into new subdivisions along the periphery of its service area. There is little undeveloped land available for new business, industrial construction or residential growth in our service area. As a result, we do not anticipate a significant increase in the number of connections in our current service area. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water connections that our California utility served as of the end of each of the past three years. California Utility—Number of Water Connections by Classification As of December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Residential 70,921 70,955 70,908 Commercial and industrial 3,018 2,994 2,980 Public authority and other 1,247 1,221 1,189 Total water connections 75,186 75,170 75,077 3 During 2006, 73% of our California utility’s annual revenues were derived from sales to residential connections, 17% from sales to commercial and industrial connections and 10% from sales to public authority and other connections. Our California utility owns 17 wells and 32 reservoirs. We believe that we are able to purchase or produce adequate water to serve our current customer base and manage reasonable growth from new customers. Our California utility obtains water by both pumping water from our own wells and by purchasing water from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (“MWD”), a governmental agency, or other sources. The wells owned and operated by our California utility pump water from two of the major groundwater basins in the Southern California coastal watershed: the Main San Gabriel Basin (the “Main Basin”) and the Central Basin. Our rights to pump water from the Main and Central Basins are fully adjudicated under California law, and these adjudications establish our right to produce water at levels and at a cost prescribed each year by the respective Watermaster Boards (the “Watermasters”) that manage the Main and Central Basins. Our California utility is also allowed to produce water from the Main and Central Basins in excess of the amount prescribed by the Watermasters, but when such excess production occurs, an additional payment is required to provide for the replenishment of the water supply. As the water levels in the Main and Central Basins increase or decrease, the Watermasters may adjust the prescribed production levels beyond which we are required to make payments for replenishment of the water supply. In mid-year 2001, we removed from service some of our wells in the Main Basin from service due to environmental matters more fully described in “—Environmental Matters” below. This resulted in our California utility purchasing greater amounts of water from the MWD and other sources. We purchased 46% of our supply from external sources in 2001 but those purchases increased to 72% in 2002 as a result of the lost groundwater production caused by the Main Basin contamination. Our purchases from external sources have decreased in subsequent years to 48% in 2006 as we have gradually replaced the lost groundwater production. Under an agreement made in early 2002, we have been reimbursed for the incremental costs of purchasing water needed to replace the lost groundwater production. We expect such reimbursement to continue until completion of remediation. See “—Environmental Matters” below for additional information. Even though our utility service areas in California are not likely to experience significant connection growth, our California utility operations require significant capital expenditures for the renovation and replacement of our infrastructure. Cash for capital expenditures is generated internally by California utility operations, periodic debt financings and bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water. Our California utility also receives contributions in aid of construction from developers, governmental agencies, municipalities or individuals to assist in the cost of facility development. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, capital expenditures in California were $10.7 million, $9.5 million and $9.3 million, respectively. Our California utility received capital contributions and advances from developers of $3.7 million, $1.0 million and $5.6 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, to assist in providing funding for these capital expenditures. The CPUC regulates the rates and operations of our California utility. Under current CPUC practices, California customer water rates may be changed through general rate cases or by offsets for certain rate base and expense items. Since September 30, 2002, the California Public Utilities Code has required that CPUC-regulated water utilities file general rate cases every three years. General rate cases require formal proceedings with the CPUC in which overall rate structure, expenses and rate base are examined by CPUC staff. Historically, rate proceedings have required approximately 12 months from the time an application is filed to the CPUC’s authorization of new rates. Our California utility made a general rate case filing in June 2005 and was granted an average 6.4% increase in rates effective July 1, 2006. The next general rate case application is scheduled to be filed in June 2008 and is expected to be effective in mid 2009. 4 In addition to a general rate increase, the CPUC typically provides for step increases in the second and third years following the general rate increase. The step increases are intended to compensate for projected expense increases. Prior to June 2004, allowable step increases were predetermined by the CPUC in general rate case decisions. Under the CPUC’s interim rate case plan adopted in June 2004, step increases, now referred to as escalation year increases, are no longer predetermined, but rather are partly subject to inflationary indices in those later years. As with step increases, escalation year increases are also subject to verification that pro forma earnings levels have not exceeded the amounts authorized in the general rate proceeding. In connection with the general rate case that went into effect July 1, 2006, the CPUC estimated additional escalation year increases at 2.9% and 2.6% effective July 1, 2007 and 2008, respectively, subject to CPUC verification. In December 2005 the CPUC adopted a Water Action Plan which identified policy objectives for guiding the CPUC in regulating investor-owned water utilities. It also highlighted actions that the CPUC anticipates taking to implement those objectives. A key objective of the plan is to strengthen water conservation programs to a level comparable to those of energy utilities. In pursuing that goal, in January 2007 the CPUC opened an Order Instituting Investigation (OII) concerning conservation objectives for water utilities. That OII consolidated pending conservation rate design applications by four utilities, including one that our California utility had been required to file as a condition of the final decision in its recent general rate case filing. The CPUC has proposed a tentative schedule for this consolidated proceeding which culminates with a CPUC decision being issued not earlier than June 2007. Texas Our regulated public water utilities in Texas serve water and provide sewage collection and treatment services for residential, commercial and irrigation use under the jurisdiction of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”). We also own a small public water utility in Oklahoma, which is regulated by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (“OCC”), that we operate as part of our Texas utilities. Our service areas in Texas are broadly dispersed geographically throughout the state covering about 4,000 square miles, encompassing the Dallas-Fort Worth, Houston, Austin and San Antonio areas. Our service areas are highly fragmented and are comprised of 92 separate water systems serving a population of about 101,000 people in an area of approximately 43 square miles, most of which is largely undeveloped. These service areas are experiencing ongoing real estate development, and we expect the number of connections in our service areas to continue growing in future years. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water and wastewater connections served by our Texas utilities as of the end of each of the most recent three years: Texas Utilities—Number of Water and Wastewater Connections by Classification Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Residential 33,126 11,622 32,460 11,388 31,006 10,878 Business and commercial 393 167 375 160 339 144 Total connections 33,519 11,789 32,835 11,548 31,345 11,022 We established our presence in Texas in 2000 when we acquired our first water utility near Austin, Texas. We significantly expanded our presence in Texas in 2004 when we acquired 86 water and 14 wastewater collection and treatment systems which we operate as Monarch Utilities. We continue to make strategic acquisitions of utilities within our geographic footprint, thereby expanding our presence in the region and gaining economies of 5 scale. For example, since our 2004 acquisition of Monarch, we have acquired three smaller utilities serving a combined total of approximately 600 connections in proximity to our existing service areas. Our Texas utilities own or have rights to 225 wells and 354 reservoirs in addition to distribution, collection and treatment facilities. We expect customer growth to continue in our Texas service areas and, as a result, we may have to increase the water supply capacity of our Texas utilities through a combination of outside water purchases and the construction of additional wells. We have long-term agreements to purchase water from the cities of Austin and Pflugerville, Texas, the Lower Colorado River Authority and other water producers in the Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston areas. Our Texas utilities are capital intensive because they are older systems and therefore require infrastructure upgrades to remediate regulatory compliance issues inherited from the previous owners. They also require additional capital for expansion to support population growth. Cash for capital expenditures is generated from our Texas utilities’ operations, periodic debt financing, bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water, and contributions and advances received from developers. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our capital expenditures in Texas were $25.9 million, $19.8 million, and $12.4 million, respectively. Our Texas utilities received contributions from developers of $4.5 million, $1.7 million and $1.8 million during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The TCEQ regulates the rates and operations of our Texas utilities. Monarch Utilities received authorization for a rate increase in October 2004 and benefited from a step increase in October 2005. Monarch Utilities anticipates filing for another rate increase in the fourth quarter of 2007. Windermere Utility, another one of our Texas utilities, filed for a rate increase in 2006 and preliminary rates went into effect at the end of 2006. We believe final TCEQ approval of this rate filing will occur during the first quarter of 2007. We also expect to file for a rate increase during 2007 for one of our recently acquired utilities serving the Austin area. The remainder of our Texas utilities are not currently seeking increased rates; however, regulatory changes concerning water quality, future construction expenditures and increased operating expenses may result in future requests for rate increases. New Mexico Our regulated public water utility in New Mexico serves water and supplies wastewater collection services for residential, commercial and irrigation use. The wastewater we collect through our system of collection lines and lift stations is processed at a municipal treatment facility. Our New Mexico utility is under jurisdiction of the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission (“NMPRC”). Our New Mexico utility service area is located in the northwest part of the City of Albuquerque and in the northern portion of Bernalillo County, and contains a population of approximately 52,000 people in an area of approximately 34 square miles. Approximately 36% of the area has been developed. The following table indicates, by classification, the number of water and wastewater connections served by our New Mexico utility as of the end of each of the most recent three years: New Mexico Utility—Number of Water and Wastewater Connections by Classification Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Residential 16,030 15,875 14,889 14,729 13,586 13,416 Business and commercial 866 325 782 306 725 292 Other — 11 — 11 — 11 Total connections 16,896 16,211 15,671 15,046 14,311 13,719 6 Our New Mexico utility has grown from approximately 800 water connections at the time of its acquisition in 1969 to over 16,800 connections today. Most of this growth has resulted from the extension of water services and sewage collection services into new residential subdivisions and new commercial development. During 2006, we added 1,225 new water connections and 1,165 new wastewater connections in our service area. Because of the continuing real estate development in our service area, we expect continued connection growth in 2007. During 2006, 66% our revenues in New Mexico were from sales to residential connections and 34% of our revenues were from sales to commercial and industrial connections. Our New Mexico utility owns eight wells and five reservoirs, and we believe that we have adequate water capacity to serve our current customer base as well as reasonable growth from new customers. The wells that we own and operate in New Mexico produce water from the Rio Grande Underground Basin. We have purchased, and plan to continue evaluating opportunities to purchase, additional water rights in New Mexico. As we expect customer growth to continue in our New Mexico service area, we may have to increase our water supply capacity through additional well construction. Our New Mexico utility has established an emergency supply of water available through an interconnection with another water purveyor, for use in the case of a temporary interruption in our New Mexico water supply. Because our New Mexico utility service area has continued to experience customer growth, our operations are capital intensive. Cash for capital expenditures is generated by New Mexico utility operations, periodic debt financing, bank lines of credit extended to Southwest Water, and contributions and advances received from developers. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our capital expenditures in New Mexico were $13.7 million, $11.9 million, and $9.2 million, respectively. Our New Mexico utility received capital contributions from developers of $7.3 million, $5.6 million and $6.3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The NMPRC regulates the rates and operations of our utility subsidiary in New Mexico. Requests for rate increases, typically based on historical costs, must be submitted to the NMPRC. We have not requested a general water or wastewater rate increase during the past several years and at this time we do not expect to do so in the near future. On January 19, 2007, the Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Authority and the City of Rio Rancho, New Mexico filed a lawsuit in New Mexico District Court to condemn our New Mexico utility in accordance with the provisions of the New Mexico Eminent Domain Code. Under prevailing law, condemning agencies must pay fair market value for property they take through eminent domain. While we intend to vigorously contest the eminent domain proceedings, we are exposed to the risk of losing our New Mexico utility if the condemnation proceedings succeed. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Alabama In 2005 we acquired a wastewater collection and treatment system in a high growth area located south of Birmingham, Alabama. Our Alabama utility served approximately 4,000 residential and 200 business and commercial connections in 2006. We expect the number of connections in our service area to grow in future years. Mississippi On February 23, 2007, we acquired a small water and wastewater utility in northern Mississippi, just south of Memphis, Tennessee. Our Mississippi utility is under jurisdiction of the Mississippi Public Service Commission (“MPSC”). The utility, which has 275 water connections and 355 wastewater collection connections, will be our first regulated utility in Mississippi. Our Services Group has operated in the area for several years and will operate 7 this utility for our Utility Group. This acquisition augments our existing operations in Mississippi and corresponds with our strategy of expanding into geographic markets with high population growth rates. Seasonality Our Utility Group water revenues are seasonal because rainfall and weather conditions affect water sales. The second and third quarters of each year typically account for the highest volume of water consumption when weather tends to be hot and dry. Utility Group wastewater revenues are generally not seasonal. The results of operations for one quarter do not indicate results to be expected in another quarter. Drought conditions may result in consumer conservation efforts or water shortages, which can reduce consumption. Drought conditions may also result in increased water costs to us, which could adversely affect our profitability. Conversely, unusually wet conditions may result in decreased customer demand, lower revenues and lower profit in our utility operations. Environmental Matters One of the water sources for our California water utility has been affected by the presence of certain groundwater contaminants. These contaminants consist mainly of chemicals disposed of by various industrial companies in the 1940s and 1950s. In 2001 and 2002, this contamination necessitated the shutdown of a number of our wells, and we purchased replacement water at a cost substantially higher than the cost of water pumped from our own wells. Prior to May 2002, these costs were recorded as operating expenses and reduced our operating income. In May 2002, a settlement agreement was reached between some of the parties allegedly responsible for the contamination (“Cooperating Respondents”) and certain water entities, including our California water utility. As a result of this agreement, we recorded income in 2002 of $1.7 million for reimbursement of certain water and energy costs incurred because of the contamination. Since our groundwater contamination-related costs incurred prior to the agreement were not included in our water rate calculations, the reimbursement offset costs that our utility had previously incurred, resulting in no affect on ratepayers. As a result of this settlement agreement, we have received payments during the last several years, and we expect to continue to receive payments until completion of remediation. These payments represent the incremental cost of purchasing water over the cost that would have been incurred by us to pump water from our wells had they not been shut down as a result of contamination and excluded costs covered in the $1.7 million settlement discussed above. The settlement agreement provided for ongoing reimbursement of our excess water costs and we bill and collect this reimbursement monthly. These monthly reimbursements are recorded as a reduction to operating expenses. The reimbursements were $3.1 million, $3.4 million, $3.3 million, $4.0 million and $4.4 million during 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The settlement agreement also provides for contributions by the Cooperating Respondents for construction of new wells and interconnections with nearby water sources. These contributions were $1.6 million, $0.5 million, $0.7 million, $2.5 million and $3.2 million for 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and were recorded as contributions in aid of construction. Water Quality Regulation Potable Water The water supplies available to all of our utilities are subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) under the 1996 Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“US Act”). The US Act establishes uniform minimum national water quality standards, as well as specification of the types of treatment processes to 8 be used for public drinking water. The EPA, as mandated under the US Act, issues regulations that require, among other things, disinfection of drinking water, specification of maximum contaminant levels (“MCLs”) and filtration of surface water supplies. Our water supplies are also subject to regulation by the following: · in California, the Office of Drinking Water of the California Department of Health Services (“DOHS”) under the California Safe Drinking Water Act (“Cal Act”); · in Mississippi, the Mississippi Department of Health Services—Water Supply Division. · in New Mexico, the State of New Mexico Environment Department—Drinking Water Bureau (“NMDWB”); · in Oklahoma, the Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”), and · in Texas, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”). The Cal Act and the rules of the DOHS are similar to the US Act and the mandates of the EPA, except that in many instances the requirements of the DOHS are more stringent than those of the EPA. In addition to the EPA and the DOHS water quality regulations, our California water utility is also subject to water quality standards that may be set by the CPUC. The California Supreme Court has ruled that the CPUC has the authority to set standards that are more stringent than those set by the EPA and the DOHS. In February 2002, the EPA lowered the arsenic standard in drinking water from 50 parts per billion to 10 parts per billion. We were required to comply with the more stringent standard by January of 2006. Currently, our water sources in California, Oklahoma and Texas are in compliance with the new standard. The DOHS is holding discussions that could result in a more stringent arsenic standard. We cannot predict the impact that such changes in the arsenic standard would have on our California and Texas water utility operations. If the arsenic standard remains at 10 parts per billion, we do not expect it to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. To meet this new standard in New Mexico, we have constructed two arsenic removal treatment plants and are constructing a third plant which we expect will become operational during 2007. Capital expenditures totaling $3.4 million have been required to date at our New Mexico facilities in order to comply with the new arsenic standard and we expect that the cost of water will increase as a result of the treatment requirements. If the cost of complying with this new standard has an adverse impact on our New Mexico operations, we will consider making a request to the NMPRC for recovery of these costs. While the NMPRC has previously allowed the recovery of similar costs through higher rates, we cannot assure you that costs incurred or capital spent will ultimately be recoverable from the ratepayers. Costs associated with testing of our water supplies have increased and are expected to further increase as regulatory agencies adopt additional monitoring requirements. We believe that costs associated with the additional monitoring and testing of our water supplies will be recoverable from ratepayers through future rate increases. However, we cannot assure you that water sources currently available to our utilities will meet future EPA, or state regulatory requirements, that recovery of additional costs will be allowed, or that new or revised monitoring requirements will not necessitate additional capital expenditures in the future. We believe that future incremental costs of complying with governmental regulations, including capital expenditures, will be recoverable through increased rates. However, we cannot assure you that recovery of such costs will be allowed. Both the EPA and the state regulatory agencies have put into effect regulations and other pronouncements that require periodic testing and sampling of water to ensure that only permissible levels below the prescribe MCLs of organic and volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”), herbicides, pesticides, radionuclides, and inorganic substances are present in water supplied to the public. Our water utilities operators regularly sample and monitor the quality of water being distributed throughout the system. Our utility personnel conduct sampling, 9 testing and inspections at the intervals, locations and frequencies required by EPA and state regulations. Water samples from throughout our water systems are tested regularly by state-certified laboratories for bacterial contamination, chemical contaminant content and for the presence of pollutants and contaminants for which MCLs have been put into effect. The test results are sent to the respective state regulatory agencies. Disinfection and other types of treatment are applied to water supplies as required or needed to safeguard against bacteriological, chemical and other water contaminants. In addition, each of our utilities provides its customers with an annual water quality report that, among other matters, informs them of the sources and quality of the water being provided. In California, in addition to water sampling and testing performed by our utility personnel, independent engineers retained by the Watermasters conduct sampling and testing for certain pollutants such as VOCs. The results of the sampling and testing are made available to the DOHS and all water purveyors that produce water from the Main Basin. The cost of such sampling and testing is covered by assessments to the producers in this basin. Several water systems at our Texas utilities are in violation of MCLs and other state regulatory requirements which has resulted in some cases in citations and fines from the TCEQ. We have entered into agreements with the TCEQ under which we have committed to make certain improvements to achieve compliance. These agreements are intended to provide the TCEQ with assurance that problems covered by these agreements will be addressed, and the agreements generally provide protection to us from fines, penalties and other actions while corrective measures are being implemented. The customers in affected areas have been advised of the violations and the corrective actions taken, as required by the TCEQ. We have constructed new treatment facilities, changed water sources and/or taken other steps during the past year to address these compliance issues. We are actively working with the TCEQ and outside consultants to address the remaining issues and bring the affected systems into full compliance. We do not expect the ultimate resolution of these compliance issues will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Drinking water systems have been identified as critical infrastructures and potential terrorist targets. In compliance with the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Response Act of 2002, PL 107-88, our Utility Group assessed the vulnerability of our water systems to terrorist attack. This vulnerability assessment was used to determine the risks posed to the water supply system operations, treatment, and distribution systems; identify the water systems’ vulnerabilities; provide a prioritized plan for security upgrades, modifications of operational procedures, and/or policy changes to mitigate identified risks to critical assets; and provide a basis for comparing the cost of protection against the risks posed. While it is impossible to protect or eliminate the vulnerability of all of our drinking water systems, our utilities considered and are implementing improvements in security that we believe can make it more difficult for attacks to succeed and can lessen the impact of attacks that may occur. We believe that water supplied by our California utility meets all current requirements of the US Act, the Cal Act and the regulations put into effect under the related legislation and CPUC standards. We also believe that water supplied by our Mississippi, New Mexico and Texas utilities complies with all current requirements of the US Act and the respective state regulatory agencies, except as noted above. However, we cannot assure you that water sources currently available to our water utilities will meet existing and future federal or state regulatory requirements or that such future requirements will not necessitate future capital expenditures by our water utilities. It is not possible at this time to reasonably project the potential impact on future capital requirements, if any, resulting from these regulatory requirements, but the effect is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition because amounts expended are expected to be recoverable through rates. We also cannot assure you that our systems will not be fined or receive citations for past failures although the amounts, if any, are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 10 Wastewater The water discharged from our wastewater facilities are subject to regulations imposed by the EPA under the Clean Water Act of 1972, as amended. In Texas, the discharged water is also subject to regulation under the TCEQ Texas Clean Water Act, as amended. These regulations establish MCLs for discharging contaminates into natural water bodies. We hold several discharge permits as required by the TCEQ and are complying with all monitoring and reporting requirements related to the quality of the discharged water. When we acquired our Texas-based Monarch Utilities in 2004, its wastewater facilities were not in compliance with TCEQ regulations and, as a result, some discharge violations have occurred that resulted in citations and fines. We have been cooperatively working with the TCEQ and have entered into agreements with them under which we have committed to make certain improvements to achieve compliance. These agreements are intended to provide the TCEQ with assurance that problems covered by these agreements will be addressed, and the agreements generally provide protection to us from fines, penalties and other actions while corrective measures are being implemented. We are addressing these violations by constructing new treatment facilities, changing existing treatment and/or modifying operations. We are continuing to work with the TCEQ and outside consultants to address the remaining issues and bring the affected systems into full compliance. We do not expect the ultimate resolution of these compliance issues will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Costs associated with monitoring and complying with the Clean Water Act have increased and are expected to further increase as regulatory agencies adopt additional monitoring requirements. We believe that costs associated with the additional monitoring and testing of the discharge water will be recoverable from ratepayers through future rate increases. However, we cannot assure you that existing discharges will meet existing or future EPA, or TCEQ regulatory requirements, that recovery of additional costs will be allowed, or that new or revised monitoring requirements will not necessitate additional capital expenditures in the future. We believe that future incremental costs of complying with governmental regulations, including capital expenditures, will be recoverable through increased rates. However, we cannot assure you that recovery of such costs will be allowed. Competition Our regulated utilities in California, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas each operate under a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity granted by the respective regulators in their state. Our water utilities and Alabama wastewater utility are also regulated by other state and local governmental authorities having jurisdiction over water and wastewater service and other aspects of our water utility businesses. Our Utility Group water businesses are dependent upon maintaining these certificates and upon various governmental and court decisions affecting our water rights and service areas. Alabama, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas state laws provide that no public or private agency can install facilities within the service area of a public utility in order to compete with it, except upon payment of just compensation for all damages incurred by the public utility. Under the state laws of California and New Mexico, municipalities and certain other public agencies have the right to acquire private water utility plants and systems within their territorial limits by condemnation but must pay fair value for the condemned system. On January 19, 2007, the Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Authority and the City of Rio Rancho, New Mexico filed a petition in New Mexico District Court seeking to acquire, by condemnation, our New Mexico utility through the alleged power of eminent domain. While we intend to vigorously contest the condemnation proceedings, we are exposed to the risk of being required to sell our New Mexico utility if the condemnation proceedings succeed. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information. 11 SERVICES GROUP—DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS, SERVICES AND REGULATION Our Services Group has over 660 contracts as of December 31, 2006, with the majority of these contracts falling into one of three categories: · Municipal Utility District contracts; · Operations and maintenance contracts; and · Construction management contracts. Municipal Utility District (“MUD”) Contracts A Municipal Utility District (“MUD”) is created either administratively or legislatively to operate under the rules of the TCEQ to provide water supply, wastewater treatment and drainage services to areas where existing municipal services are not available. Our Services Group has contracts with MUDs in the suburbs of Houston, Austin, Dallas and El Paso, Texas. Under a typical MUD contract, we bill a monthly base fee to the MUD to provide a specified level of services. We typically provide water and/or wastewater facility operations and maintenance services, equipment maintenance and repair, billing and collection services. We also provide state-certified water and wastewater laboratory analysis for an additional fee. We usually bill for any additional services provided beyond the basic contract on a time-and-materials basis as such services are rendered. Most contracts provide for an increase in the monthly base fee as the number of customer connections increases and generally include inflation adjustments. Changes in prices are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. Generally, MUD contracts are cancelable with 30 to 60 day prior notice by either party. Our experience indicates that, with high-quality service and strong focus on client satisfaction, MUD relationships can last for many years. For example, many of our MUD contracts have been in existence for over ten years. Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) Contracts Operations and maintenance (“O&M”) contracts are agreements with cities, private entities and investor-owned utilities (including some of our own Utility Group affiliates) that provide specific services such as facility operation and maintenance, meter reading, customer billing and collection, municipal pubic works services and/or management, or management of entire water or wastewater systems. Under a typical O&M contract, our Services Group subsidiaries charge a fee that covers a specified level of services. Services are typically provided evenly throughout the contract period and are billed on a monthly basis. Our O&M contracts limit our liability in the event of a major system failure or catastrophic event. If we provide services beyond the scope of a contract, we bill for the additional services. For example, if a major system failure or catastrophic event occurred as the result of flooding, hurricanes, earthquakes, electrical strikes or vandalism, the facility owner usually asks us to provide additional services on a time-and-materials basis. Most O&M contracts provide for annual increases based upon inflation and we typically have the right to increase our fixed operations fee if the system experiences customer connection growth beyond a specified level. We may pay certain costs, such as chemical or power expenses. However, the contracts usually provide for reimbursement of these costs. In most cases, O&M contracts are cancelable by either party only upon the occurrence of specified events defined as a breach of contract. O&M contracts have terms ranging from month-to-month to up to 20 years, with the typical duration being three to five years. We have a strong focus on customer service and client satisfaction and our experience has been that over 95% of our O&M contracts are renewed upon expiration. 12 Construction and Construction Management Projects Our Services Group enters into construction and construction management services contracts for water and wastewater facility development, improvement and expansion projects. Under the terms of certain of these contracts, we may bear all or a significant portion of the risk of cost overruns, or incur additional costs or penalties for failing to meet project completion deadlines or minimum performance standards. We also bid on full-scale design, build, and operate contracts. In September 2002, we successfully bid a project to design, build and operate a $23.0 million reverse osmosis water treatment plant in the city of San Juan Capistrano, California, for the Capistrano Valley Water District (“CVWD”). We also assisted the CVWD with obtaining financing for the project. The project included the drilling of several new wells and the installation of associated water lines. After completion of construction, we began the 20-year $20.0 million contract to operate and maintain the treatment plant. Services Group Contracts With Our Own Utilities Many Services Group contracts are with our own Alabama, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas utilities to perform operating services, normal maintenance and construction work and management of capital projects for these utilities. These contracts are established utilizing terms and conditions equivalent to prevailing industry rates for similar work performed by our Services Group for non-affiliated customers. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (“SFAS 71”), we recognize a profit on sales to regulated affiliates and do not eliminate the intercompany profit because we believe the sales price is reasonable and it is probable that, through the rate making process, future revenue approximately equal to the sales price will result from the regulated affiliate’s use of the services. Historically, state regulators have approved the services provided and rates charged by the Services Group to our Utility Group and permitted those charges as a component of utility rates. However, we cannot assure you that state regulators will approve those services and rates in the future. Growth and Contractual Service Backlog During the past three years, our Services Group has increased revenues and service areas by adding new contracts and construction projects, pursuing renewal and expansion of existing contracts and by making acquisitions. Revenues included in backlog are generally realized over a multi-year period. O&M contracts typically have durations of three to five years, and the uncompleted remaining portion of these contracts is reflected in backlog. MUD contracts, which are generally cancelable with 30 to 60 days prior notice, are assumed to have a 36-month remaining term, consistent with our experience, and are included in the backlog computation using an assumed 36-month term. As of December 31, 2006, our Services Group contractual base service fee backlog was $202.1 million of which we expect approximately $143.1 million will be earned during 2008 and beyond. Historically, we have included an estimate of the incremental revenue for additional billable costs we typically receive pursuant to our contracts in our backlog. We elected to discontinue this forecasting practice in 2006 and therefore the backlog we have reported in the past is not comparable with our 2006 backlog disclosure. Seasonality Our Services Group operations are generally not seasonal but can be affected by severe weather and rainfall. In general, heavy rainfall or storm conditions may limit our ability to perform certain billable work such as pipeline maintenance, manhole rehabilitation and other outdoor services. Severe weather conditions may also result in 13 additional labor and material costs to us that may not necessarily be recoverable from our various firm price contracts. Revenues from our billing and collection services business are generally not subject to seasonal fluctuations. Competition Competition in the MUD, O&M and construction management portions of our business includes a number of significantly larger companies that provide services on a national and international basis, as well as regional and local competitors. New contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. Cities themselves are also competitors in O&M operations, since we must overcome reluctance on the part of some city officials to outsource their water and wastewater services. Although industry renewal rates tend to be high, the contract water and wastewater management business is very competitive, and we cannot assure you that our Services Group will be able to increase or sustain its market share. Regulation Our Services Group prices are not subject to regulation. However, because we provide contract services which include the operation and maintenance of water supply and wastewater facilities owned by cities, public agencies, municipal utility districts and private entities (including our own Utility Group affiliates), we are subject to state and federal regulations regarding standards of water quality, safety, environmental and other matters. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS Acquisitions During the five years ended December 31, 2006, we have acquired the stock or assets of several businesses that fit our long-term growth goals for our Utility and Services Groups. Those acquisitions are summarized below. Utility Group Acquisitions Texas Utility Acquisitions. During 2006, we acquired two small water utilities serving 244 connections and the rights to serve water and provide wastewater utility service in developing areas located near Austin, Texas. The aggregate purchase price for these acquisitions was $1.4 million in cash; liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisitions were negligible. These utilities will be combined with our other utilities in the region allowing us to achieve operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. Windermere Minority Interest. We have owned 80% of Windermere Utility Company since October 2000. Windermere is our largest water and wastewater utility located in the Austin, Texas area. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement we entered into with the minority stockholder at the time of acquisition, we acquired the remaining 20% of Windermere in December 2005 by issuing 450,644 shares of our common stock which had an aggregate market value of $6.0 million as stipulated in the rights agreement. Midway Water. In October 2005, we acquired all of the stock of Midway Water Utilities, Inc., a small water utility serving approximately 370 connections located in Denton County, Texas, for $0.5 million in cash and $0.2 million of assumed liabilities. Midway will be combined with Monarch Utilities, one of our other Texas-based utilities, allowing us to achieve operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. Southwest Water Alabama. In September 2005, we acquired the assets of a wastewater collection and treatment system located in Shelby County, Alabama, which we operate as Southwest Water Alabama, for $8.6 14 million in cash. The acquisition allowed us to expand our regulated utility footprint into Alabama. Novus Utilities, the contract operations company in Birmingham Alabama we acquired in March 2005, has operated this facility since 1992 and was instrumental in the acquisition process. This synergy creates operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. Monarch Utilities. In July 2004, we acquired a Texas utility consisting of a collection of rural regulated water systems and wastewater collection and treatment systems serving approximately 21,000 water connections and 3,500 wastewater connections from Tecon Water Holdings, L.P. and renamed the utility Monarch Utilities, Inc. The acquisition expanded our regulated operations in the state of Texas. Monarch is operated by our Services Group subsidiary ECO Resources, allowing us to obtain operating efficiencies by sharing overhead costs and employee competency in this region. The aggregate purchase price was $66 million, comprised of $48 million in cash and the assumption of $18 million in debt. Services Group Acquisitions OpTech Minority Interest. We have owned 90% of Operations Technology, Inc. since August 2001. OpTech is a provider of contract water, wastewater and public works services in the southeastern United States. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement we entered into with the minority stockholder at the time of acquisition, we acquired the remaining 10% of OpTech in for $1.0 million in cash on March 21, 2006. Novus Utilities. In March 2005, we acquired the assets of a Birmingham, Alabama-based contract operations company we operate as Novus Utilities, Inc. This acquisition increased our market presence in the southeastern United States and introduced us to the Birmingham, Alabama area. We paid $2.7 million in cash and assumed $1.1 million of liabilities, which includes $0.6 million of debt, in connection with this acquisition. ACE Technologies. In September 2004, our Southwest Environmental Laboratories subsidiary acquired the assets of Houston, Texas-based ACE Technologies, Inc., a water and wastewater testing laboratory for $1.2 million in the form of a promissory note payable to the former owner. The promissory note was paid during 2005. This acquisition allowed us to expand our capacity and expertise in the water and wastewater quality testing field. Aqua Services. In November 2002, we acquired the assets of a multi-state contract operations company which we operate under the name Aqua Services LP for $10.3 million in cash and $4.5 million of assumed liabilities. Aqua Services is based in Houston, Texas. Disposition of Master Tek In June 2005, we sold Master Tek International, Inc, our subsidiary that provided utility submetering and billing and collection services to multi-family residential properties. We elected to sell Master Tek because of changes in the submetering market which would have required significant capital investments in future years. We believe growth opportunities involving our core competencies of operating and managing water and wastewater facilities exceed those of the submetering business. We sold Master Tek for $12.2 million in cash. We received $11.1 million in cash at closing and $1.1 million was placed into an escrow account which was released upon final determination of customary representations and warranties. We used the proceeds from the sale to acquire the assets of a wastewater collection and treatment system located in Shelby County, Alabama, and to repay borrowings under our bank line of credit. Master Tek contributed $8.4 million of revenue during 2004 and $3.7 million during the first six months of 2005 prior to the sale. As a result of the sale, Master Tek is reflected as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements included in this report. The sale of this business, which was part of our Services Group, did not adversely affect the operations of our remaining businesses in the Services Group or our Utility Group. 15 OTHER INFORMATION Credit Concentration We have no individual customers who accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, or whose loss would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated or operating segment revenues. Intellectual Property The primary focus of the water and wastewater management industry is customer service, and the industry does not rely heavily on technological or proprietary manufacturing processes. We do not conduct significant research and development activities. Except for certain logos, trademarks and artwork used in marketing, we have no other patents, licenses or trademarks. Employees At December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 1,500 people. Approximately 1,350 people were employed in our Services Group, 125 were employed in our Utility Group and 25 people in our corporate office. None of our employees are represented under a collective bargaining agreement. We believe relations with our employees are positive. COMPANY INFORMATION We make available free of charge through our internet website our press releases, annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website also contains our Code of Ethical Conduct for all employees and our Code of Ethics for Directors and Executive Officers. Our address is: Southwest Water Company; 624 South Grand Avenue, Suite 2900, Los Angeles, California 90017-3782. Our telephone number is (213) 929-1800 and our Internet website address is www.swwc.com. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in two business segments: our Utility Group and our Services Group. There are separate risk factors associated with each. UTILITY GROUP OPERATIONS Weather Conditions Rainfall and weather conditions affect the financial results of our Utility Group. · Most water use occurs during the second and third quarters of each year when weather tends to be hot and dry. Depending on the degree of heat and lack of rain, our marginal costs of water may exceed our marginal revenues as we use higher-cost purchased water to meet customer demand. Therefore, while our revenues may increase, we may experience lower profit margins during periods of peak demand. · Drought, or conversely, unusually wet conditions, may also adversely impact our revenues and profitability. During a drought, we may experience both lower revenues due to consumer conservation efforts and higher water costs due to supply shortages. Since a relatively high percentage of our water is used for residential landscape irrigation, unusually wet conditions could result in decreased customer 16 demand, lower revenues and lower profit. Consequently, the results of operations for one quarter should not be used to predict the results of future quarters. Regulatory Environment Changes in the regulatory environment, including restrictions on the rates we are allowed to charge customers, may adversely affect our results of operations. · Our utility subsidiaries are subject to regulation by governmental agencies which establish the rates that we may charge our customers. These rates are intended, in concept, to permit our utilities to recover operating costs and earn a rate of return on our investment in utility plant and equipment. Each state regulatory agency sets the rules and policies that allow our utilities to file applications to increase rates as expenses or investment needs increase. These rules and policies may require that we estimate future expenses or may require that we incur specific expenses before there can be a change in rates. As a result, our revenues and earnings may fluctuate depending on the accuracy of our estimates, timing of our investments or expenses, or other factors. For example, in many instances we rely on electric pumps to pump and move water to our customers. Electric power costs in California have been volatile. While we intend to use energy-efficient techniques and appropriate equipment, we may seek an increase in rates. If we were unable to obtain a rate increase that completely offsets the affect of higher power costs, we would realize a decrease in our profitability. · The regulatory agencies may change their rules and policies which may adversely impact our profitability. In some states, regulators are elected by popular vote, and the results of elections may change the rules and policies of the agency. Changes in the rules and policies, including policies allowing our Services Group to provide operations and maintenance, construction and construction management services to our regulated utilities at fair market value, may adversely impact our operating results. Water Contamination Contamination of our water sources by third parties may adversely affect our operations. · Our water sources are susceptible to contamination. We may not be able to recover costs incurred or revenues lost due to such contamination. Additionally, contamination exposes us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. Natural Disasters or Terrorist Activities We own assets in areas that historically have experienced natural disasters or that may be disrupted by terrorist activities. · Some of our utility operations are located in areas that historically have experienced earthquakes and hurricanes as well as other natural disasters. While we maintain insurance policies to help reduce our financial exposure, a significant event could adversely impact our ability to deliver water. · Our utility assets could be targeted by terrorists seeking to disrupt services to our customers. 17 Environmental Risks We are subject to environmental risks and may not be able to provide an adequate supply of water to our customers. · Improved detection technology, increasingly stringent regulatory requirements and heightened consumer awareness of water quality issues contribute to an environment of increased focus on water quality. · Even though we continuously treat and test our water supplies to ensure that the water we distribute complies with water quality standards, we cannot assure you that we will be able in the future to reduce contaminants in our wells to acceptable levels at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. · Standards that we must meet are constantly changing and becoming more stringent. For example, in February 2002, the EPA lowered the arsenic standard in drinking water from 50 parts per billion to 10 parts per billion. To meet this new standard, we took actions that included constructing three arsenic removal treatment plants costing $3.4 million and we expect that the resulting treatment requirements will increase our cost of the water we provide. While we may request rate increases to recover these additional costs and the cost of complying with standards that may be enacted in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining those rate increases. Water Sources We have no assured access to water. · Each of our utilities obtains its water from various sources. The preferred source is pumping water from aquifers within our service areas. In the event that our wells cannot meet the customer demand, we have the ability to purchase water from surrounding municipalities, agencies and other utilities. However, it usually costs us more to purchase water than to produce it. Furthermore, these alternative sources may not always have an adequate supply to sell us. · To date, we have been able to produce and purchase enough water to meet our current customer requirements in California. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to produce or purchase enough water to fully satisfy future customer demand in our California service area. For example, our California utility purchases water from the MWD, which receives water from the Colorado River. In 2003, the US Department of the Interior restricted the amount of water that California may receive from the Colorado River. This restriction may impact the amount of water that the MWD can sell to our California utility in the future. We are currently examining various options to increase our available water supply in California. These options include drilling new wells, adding connections to our existing MWD supply lines and constructing water treatment facilities. We cannot assure you that the results of drilling the wells will be successful, that we will be able to obtain necessary permits to add new supply lines and connections, or that we will be able to obtain regulatory or legislative approval to operate new water treatment facilities. · We can make no guarantee that we will always have access to an adequate supply of water that will meet all quality standards, or that the cost of our water will not adversely affect our operating results. 18 SERVICES GROUP OPERATIONS Competition We operate in a competitive market. · Our Services Group competes with several larger companies whose size, financial resources, customer base and technical expertise may restrict our ability to compete successfully for certain operations and maintenance contracts. · Due to the nature of our contract operations business, and to the very competitive nature of the market, we must accurately estimate the cost and profitability of each project while, at the same time, maintaining prices at a level low enough to compete with other companies. Our inability to achieve this balance could adversely impact our results of operations. Revenue Growth Our revenue growth depends upon our ability to obtain new operating contracts as well as to renew existing contracts with cities, municipal utility districts and other agencies. · Because we are selling our services in a political environment, we are subject to changing trends and municipal preferences. Recent terrorist acts have affected some political viewpoints relative to outsourcing water or wastewater utility services. In the United States, municipalities own and municipal employees operate the majority of water and wastewater systems. A significant portion of our Services Group’s marketing and sales efforts is spent demonstrating the benefits of contract operations to elected officials and municipal authorities. The existing political environment means that decisions are based on many factors, not just economic factors. Weather Conditions Events such as heavy rain, hurricanes, tornadoes and floods may affect our results of operations. · Our Services Group contract operations can be impacted by heavy rainfall which may limit our ability to perform certain billable work such as pipeline maintenance, manhole rehabilitation and other outdoor services. · Severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods, may result in additional labor and material costs that may not necessarily be recoverable under our firm, fixed-price O&M contracts, and therefore may adversely impact our results of operations. Construction Contract Performance Risk Services Group contracts for the design and construction of water and wastewater projects may expose us to certain completion and performance risks. · We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, design and construction contracts for water and wastewater facilities. These construction activities involve potential risks, including shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor relations disputes, weather interference, engineering, environmental, permitting or geological problems and unanticipated cost increases for reasons beyond our control. These issues could give rise to delays, cost overruns or performance deficiencies, or otherwise adversely affect the design, construction or operation of the project. To minimize our exposure to the risks associated with construction projects, we attempt to procure maximum price contracts from significant subcontractors, and secure performance and completion bonds from those subcontractors. 19 · Certain of our contracts are fixed-price contracts, where we may bear all, or a significant portion of, the risk for cost overruns. Under these fixed-price contracts, our contract pricing is established in part based on fixed, firm subcontractor quotes or contracts and on cost and scheduling estimates. These estimates may be based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other issues. If these subcontractor quotations or cost estimates prove inaccurate, or if circumstances change, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. There can be no assurance that we can avoid additional costs under these types of contracts. · See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Certain Contractual Commitments and Indemnities” for additional information. Environmental and Water Quality Risks Our Services Group is subject to environmental and water quality risks. · We operate facilities on behalf of our clients under contract. These facilities must be operated in accordance with various federal and state water quality standards. We also handle certain hazardous materials at these facilities, such as chlorine gas and hydrogen sulfide. Any failures of our operation of the facilities, including sewage spills, noncompliance with water quality standards, hazardous material leaks and spills, and similar events, could expose us to environmental liabilities, claims and litigation costs. We cannot assure you that we will successfully manage these issues, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. Escalating Costs Our operating costs, construction costs and costs of providing services may rise faster than our revenues. · Many of our contracts with municipalities include contractual price increases tied to national consumer price indices. However, our costs are subject to market conditions and other factors, which may increase significantly higher than a generalized price index. The largest component of our operating costs is made up of salaries and wages. These costs are affected by the local supply and demand for qualified labor. Other large components of our costs are general liability insurance, workers compensation insurance, employee benefits and health insurance costs. These costs may increase at rates higher than the applicable general price index and therefore may result in a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Contract Cancellations Our operations and maintenance contracts may be canceled, reducing our revenues and service backlog. Also, we may not secure new construction and construction management projects on a consistent basis, leading to fluctuations in revenues and backlog. · Our Service Group revenue backlog consists of new and existing contracts. We include new contracts in the backlog when we have a signed contract. Revenues included in our backlog may be realized over a multi-year period. The contracts signed by our Services Group typically have durations of three to five years and some are cancelable with 30 to 60 days prior notice. The uncompleted portion of base revenue for these existing contracts is reflected in the backlog. Although our Services Group tends to experience high renewal rates, municipalities and cities periodically change operators or terminate outsourcing at the end of a contract. The inability to renew existing contracts could have a material adverse impact on our 20 Services Group. In addition, a municipality could cancel a long-term contract without notice. This would result in loss of revenues and operating profits and may result in litigation if a breach of contract occurs. Regulatory Environment Changes in the regulatory environment may adversely affect our results of operations. · Our utility subsidiaries are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. In some states, regulators are elected by popular vote, and the results of elections may change the rules and policies of the agency. Changes in rules and policies, including policies allowing our Services Group to provide operations and maintenance, construction and construction management services to our regulated utilities at fair market value, may adversely impact our operating results. OTHER RISK FACTORS Capital Resources Our capital resources may restrict our ability to operate and expand our business. · We anticipate that our available line of credit borrowing capacity, cash balances, cash flow generated from operations, and execution of additional financing alternatives will enable us to continue operating and expanding our business. We may be unable to renew our credit facilities when they expire. We may be unable to execute additional financing alternatives at terms that we find acceptable. If we were unable to renew our existing lines of credit, or if we were unable to execute additional financing alternatives, our capital spending would be reduced or delayed and any future acquisitions would also be delayed or eliminated. While we have the ability to take these actions, they could negatively impact our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. · See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Certain Contractual Commitments and Indemnities” for additional information. Debt Covenants We are subject to debt covenants. · We are obligated to comply with specified debt covenants under some of our loan and debt agreements. Failure to maintain compliance with these covenants could limit future borrowing, and we could face penalties, increased borrowing costs, litigation, acceleration of maturity schedules and cross default issues. Such actions by our creditors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Geographic Diversity Our operations are subject to certain risks due to their location. · We own or operate water and wastewater facilities in numerous locations in numerous states and, consequently, we are subject to widely differing weather, political, water supply, labor supply, utility cost, regulatory, economic and other risks in the areas we service. We cannot control these risks. However, we believe that our broad geographic service area, while exposing us to these risks in numerous local markets, provides us a certain amount of geographical diversification against these risks at a consolidated company level. 21 Internal Control Weaknesses Internal control weaknesses could have an adverse effect on us. · Insufficient internal controls could result in lack of compliance with contractual agreements, misstatements in our financial statements in amounts that could be material and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. · Controls that function effectively today may become inadequate due to changes in conditions. Information Technology We rely on a number of complex business systems that could malfunction. · Our businesses are dependent on several complex business systems that must function reliably in order for us to operate effectively. Among other things, system malfunctions could prevent us from operating or monitoring our facilities, billing accurately and timely analyzing financial results. Our profitability and cash flow could be impacted negatively in the event these systems do not operate effectively. Uninsured Risks We retain certain risks not covered by our insurance policies. · We evaluate our risks and insurance coverage annually. Our evaluation considers the costs, risks and benefits of retaining versus insuring various risks as well as the availability of certain types of insurance coverage. Retained risks are associated with deductible limits, partial self-insurance programs and insurance policy coverage ceilings. We cannot assure you that we will not face uninsured losses pertaining to the risks we have retained or that such uninsured losses will not affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 