ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS, STRATEGY AND INDUSTRY We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control including recession and declining consumer confidence. During periods of economic slowdown or recession such as the recent “Great Recession”, many of our customers may be forced to delay or terminate some of their product development plans. Because we rely on licensing and commercialization of our technology by third parties, we may be severely impacted by the decreasing R&D budgets of our customers. In addition, in an environment of decreasing R&D spending, sales of our In Vitro Diagnostics products may similarly suffer as a result of the decreased utilization of research-focused products. Any sustained period of decreased R&D spending by our customers and potential customers could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We may also be affected by a reduction in the amount of products purchased by our diagnostic customers. The decrease in available financing for our customers and for new ventures that could potentially become our customers can reduce our potential opportunities. One of the consequences of the “Great Recession” economic slowdown and complexities in receiving regulatory approval has been a decrease in the availability of financing for both start-up and other developing ventures, which can impact our business in several ways. For example, some customers have been unable to obtain additional financing and were forced to cease their operations. Because our financial results depend substantially on the success of our customers in commercializing their products, a reduced ability by companies to take their products to market can substantially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the decrease in available financing has resulted in fewer start-up medical device and biotechnology companies than in prior years. To the extent that fewer new companies are started, the number of potential customers for our technologies will be smaller, and we may be unable to meet our business goals, which could substantially affect our financial performance. The loss of, or significant reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could significantly reduce our revenue, earnings or other operating results. We have one customer that provided more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2014. Revenue from Medtronic represented approximately 19% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014 and was generated from multiple products and fields of use. On June 15, 2014, Medtronic and Covidien announced that they had entered into an agreement under which Medtronic would acquire Covidien. This transaction is expected to close in early 2015. If the transaction is successfully consummated, our revenue from the combined Medtronic/Covidien entity, on a post-merger basis, would represent a higher concentration of our future consolidated revenue. The loss of Medtronic or any of our largest customers, or reductions in business from them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. There can be no assurance that revenue from any customer will continue at their historical levels. If we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. The long-term success of our business may suffer if we are unable to expand our licensing base to reduce our reliance upon several major customers. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers. We intend to continue pursuing a strategy of licensing our technologies to a diversified base of medical device and other customers, thereby expanding the commercialization opportunities for our technologies. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customer devices used in connection with procedures in cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and other applications. As a result, our business is susceptible to adverse trends in procedures. Further, we 19 Table of Contents may also be subject to adverse trends in specific markets such as the cardiovascular industry, including declines in procedures using our customers’ products as well as declines in average selling prices from which we earn royalties. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract new licensees, to enter into agreements for additional applications with existing licensees and to develop technologies for use in applications outside of cardiovascular. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, develop and adapt our technologies for new applications in a timely and cost-effective manner; that new license agreements will be executed on terms favorable to us; that new applications will be accepted by customers in our target markets; or that products incorporating newly licensed technology, including new applications, will gain regulatory approval, be commercialized or gain market acceptance. Delays or failures in these efforts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Surface modification and device drug delivery are competitive markets and carry the risk of technological obsolescence and we face increased competition in our In Vitro Diagnostics segment. We operate in a competitive and evolving field, and new developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of surface modification and device drug delivery. Our surface modification and device drug delivery technologies compete with technologies developed by a number of other companies. In addition, many medical device manufacturers have developed, or are engaged in efforts to develop, drug delivery or surface modification technologies for use on their own products. Further, in fiscal 2014, we have faced increased competition in our In Vitro Diagnostics segment related to our BioFX product offerings. Some of our existing and potential competitors (especially medical device manufacturers pursuing coating solutions through their own R&D efforts) have greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than us. Competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before us. Products incorporating our competitors’ technologies may gain market acceptance more rapidly than products using ours. Developments by competitors may render our existing and potential products uncompetitive or obsolete. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that new products or technologies developed by others, or the emergence of new industry standards, will not render our products or technologies or licensees’ products incorporating our technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Any new technologies that make our drug delivery, surface modification or In Vitro Diagnostics technologies less competitive or obsolete would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face indemnity and other liability claims pursuant to our agreement with Evonik relating to the sale of substantially all of the assets of SurModics Pharmaceuticals segment. Under the terms of the purchase agreement relating to the Pharma Sale, we have agreed to indemnify Evonik against specified losses that might be incurred in connection with Evonik’s utilization of the acquired assets. We have also agreed to retain responsibility for certain liabilities that may accrue and we have made representations and warranties to Evonik, including matters relating to intellectual property. If Evonik makes an indemnification claim because it has suffered a loss or a third party has commenced an action against it, we may incur expenses to resolve Evonik’s claim or to defend Evonik and ourselves against the third-party action, which expense could harm our operating results. In addition, such indemnity claims may divert management attention from our continuing business. It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party stemmed from our actions or those of Evonik, and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for the claim. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities or to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully may limit our growth. An important part of our growth in the future may involve the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the technology, value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability, if any, of acquisition candidates. We 20 Table of Contents may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If we do not make suitable investments and acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to assimilate acquired operations, personnel, technology, information systems, and internal control systems and products; • a lack of understanding of tax, legal and cultural differences; • diversion of management’s attention, including the need to manage several remote locations with a limited management team; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies. In addition, future acquisitions by us may be dilutive to our shareholders, and cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. In addition, if we acquire entities that have not yet commercialized products but rather are developing technologies for future commercialization, our earnings per share may fluctuate as we expend significant funds for continued R&D efforts necessary to commercialize such acquired technology. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete. Goodwill or other assets on our balance sheet may become impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with previous acquisitions. As of September 30, 2014, we had $8.6 million of goodwill and an indefinite-lived trademark intangible asset on our consolidated balance sheets related to our IVD business unit. As required by the accounting guidance for non-amortizing intangible assets, we evaluate at least annually the potential impairment of the goodwill and trademark. Testing for impairment of non-amortizing intangible assets involves the determination of the fair value of our reporting units. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. We also evaluate other assets on our balance sheet, including strategic investments and intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Our estimate of the fair value of the assets may be based on fair value appraisals or discounted cash flow models using various inputs. Future impairment of the goodwill or other assets on our balance sheets could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Research and development costs may adversely affect our operating results. The success of our business depends on a number of factors, including our continued research and development of new technologies for future commercialization. In recent years, we have spent considerable development and preclinical efforts developing our drug coated balloon platform. In fiscal 2014, we completed significant preclinical testing of this platform, conducted additional related development activities and froze the design of our SurVeil drug coated balloon product for superficial femoral and popliteal artery applications. In fiscal 2015, we plan to initiate GLP and first-in-human studies using the SurVeil drug coated balloon product to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the balloon which may result in significant cost to us. In researching and developing such new technologies, we may incur significant expenses that may adversely affect our operating results, including our profitability. Additionally, these activities are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of new medical technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new technologies or devices, or that any such technology will be commercialized. 21 Table of Contents Our failure to expand our management systems and controls to support our business and integrate acquisitions could seriously harm our operating results and business. Executing our business strategy and integrating our past acquisitions has placed significant demands on management and our administrative, development, operational, information technology, manufacturing, financial and personnel resources. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, development, customer support and financial control systems, and effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. Otherwise, we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. We recognize revenue in accordance with various complex accounting standards, and changes in circumstances or interpretations may lead to accounting adjustments. Our revenue recognition policies involve application of various complex accounting standards, including accounting guidance associated with revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Our compliance with such accounting standards often involves management’s judgment regarding whether the criteria set forth in the standards have been met such that we can recognize as revenue the amounts that we receive as payment for our products or services. We base our judgments on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. In addition, the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) may issue new positions or revised guidance on the treatment of complex accounting matters. Changes in circumstances or third-party guidance could cause our judgments to change with respect to our interpretations of these complex standards, and transactions recorded, including revenue recognized, for one or more prior reporting periods, could be adversely affected. In addition in May 2014, the FASB issued new revenue recognition guidance for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers that provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The guidance states that a Company should recognize revenue which depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard will also result in enhanced disclosures about revenue related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The standard also requires quantitative and qualitative disclosures about customer contracts, significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from the costs to obtain or fulfill a contract. Additionally it has provided guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively, and improved guidance for multiple-element arrangements. This pronouncement is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2018 (October 1, 2017), early adoption is not permitted, and can be adopted by the Company either retrospectively (October 1, 2015) or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance will have on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS AND RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES We rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell most products incorporating our technologies, and those third parties may not perform, or agreements with those parties could be terminated. A principal element of our business strategy is to enter into licensing arrangements with medical device and other companies that manufacture products incorporating our technologies. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we derived approximately 53% of our revenue in each year from royalties and license fees. Although we do market certain diagnostic products and reagents, we do not currently market, distribute or sell our own medical devices or diagnostic immunoassay or molecular tests, nor do we intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Thus, our prospects are greatly dependent on the receipt of royalties from licensees of our technologies. The amount and timing of such royalties are, in turn, dependent on the ability of our licensees to gain successful regulatory approval for, market and sell products incorporating our technologies. 22 Table of Contents Failure of certain licensees to gain regulatory approval or market acceptance for such products, all of which are outside of our control, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers market and sell (and most manufacture) the products incorporating our licensed technologies. If one or more of our licensees fail to pursue the development or marketing of these products as planned, or if they modify their products in a way such that the products no longer incorporate our technology, our revenue and profits may not reach our expectations, or may decline. Additionally, our ability to generate positive operating results in connection with the achievement of development or commercialization milestones may also suffer. We do not control the timing and other aspects of the development or commercialization of products incorporating our licensed technologies because our customers may have priorities that differ from ours or their development or marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, resulting in delayed or discontinued products. Hence, the amount and timing of revenue we derive from our customers’ R&D as well as royalty payments received by us will fluctuate, and such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under our standard license agreements, licensees can terminate the license for any reason upon 90 days’ prior written notice. Existing and potential licensees have no obligation to deal exclusively with us in obtaining drug delivery or surface modification technologies and may pursue parallel development or licensing of competing technological solutions on their own or with third parties. A decision by a licensee to terminate its relationship with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our IVD business relies on distribution agreements and relationships with various third parties and any adverse change in those relationships could result in a loss of revenue and harm that business. We sell our IVD products outside of the United States primarily through distributors. Some of our distributors also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. Additionally, we serve as the exclusive North American distributor for DIARECT AG for recombinant human antigens. The success of these arrangements with these third parties depends, in part, on the continued adherence to the terms of our agreements with them. Any disruption in these arrangements will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our customers to accurately report and make payments under our agreements with them. We rely on our customers to determine whether the products that they sell are royalty-bearing and, if so, report and pay the amount of royalties owed to us under our agreements with them. The majority of our license agreements with our customers give us the right to audit their records to verify the accuracy of their reports to us. However, these audits can be expensive, time-consuming and possibly detrimental to our ongoing business relationships with our customers. While we have undertaken audits of certain of our customers in the past, we generally rely on the accuracy of the reports that they provide to us. To the extent these reports are inaccurate, the payments that we collect from our customers could be materially different than the amount actually owed, and the revenue that we recognize from these customers could be adversely affected. We have limited or no redundancy in our manufacturing facilities, and we may lose revenue and be unable to maintain our customer relationships if we lose our production capacity. We manufacture all of the products we sell in our Eden Prairie, Minnesota facility. If our existing production facility becomes incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, we may be unable to meet production requirements, we may lose revenue and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our customers, including certain of our licensees. In particular, because most of our customers use reagents to create royalty-bearing products, failure by us to deliver products including reagents, could result in decreased royalty revenue, as well as decreased revenue from the sale of products. Without our existing production facility, we 23 Table of Contents would have no other means of manufacturing products until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at the facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or the use or misuse of our products. The development and sale of medical devices and component products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. Although in most cases our customer agreements provide indemnification against such claims, there can be no guarantee that product liability claims will not be filed against us for such products, that parties indemnifying us will have the financial ability to honor their indemnification obligations or that such manufacturers will not seek indemnification or other relief from us for any such claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We have obtained a level of liability insurance coverage that we believe is appropriate to our activities, however, we cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we do not expect to be able to obtain insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies because of alleged defects, whether such recall is instituted by us, by a customer, or is required by a regulatory agency. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue will be harmed if we cannot purchase sufficient reagent components we use in our manufacture of reagents. We currently purchase some of the components we use to manufacture reagents from sole suppliers. If any of our sole suppliers becomes unwilling to supply components to us, experiences an interruption in its production or is otherwise unable to provide us with sufficient material to manufacture our reagents, we will experience production interruptions. If we lose our sole supplier of any particular reagent component or are otherwise unable to procure all components required for our reagent manufacturing for an extended period of time, we may lose the ability to manufacture the reagents our customers require to commercialize products incorporating our technology. This could result in lost royalties and product sales, which would harm our financial results. Adding suppliers to our approved vendor list may require significant time and resources since we typically thoroughly review a supplier’s business and operations to become comfortable with the quality and integrity of the materials we purchase for use with our technology, including reviewing a supplier’s manufacturing processes and evaluating the suitability of materials and packaging procedures the supplier uses. We routinely attempt to maintain multiple suppliers of each of our significant materials, so we have alternative suppliers, if necessary. However, if the number of suppliers of a material is reduced, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain our material requirements on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our operations may be harmed. We are dependent upon key personnel and may not be able to attract qualified personnel in the future. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain and attract highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for such qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance, and we generally do not enter into employment agreements, except with certain executive officers. Although we have non-compete agreements with most employees, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be enforceable. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. We collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached resulting from employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services that we provide to our customers, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the commercialization of our technologies. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and protect our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. We have been granted U.S. and foreign patents and have U.S. and foreign patent applications pending related to our proprietary technologies. There can be no assurance that any pending patent application will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, that any patents issued will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties, that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technologies, or that others will not independently develop similar technologies or design around our patents. Furthermore, because we generate a significant amount of our revenue through licensing arrangements, the loss or expiration of patent protection for our licensed technologies will result in a reduction of the revenue derived from these arrangements which may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. We may become involved in expensive and unpredictable patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings which could result in liability for damages, or impair our development and commercialization efforts. Our commercial success also will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Intellectual property litigation is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. If we were found to be infringing any third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could be required to pay significant damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses from others, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or cease commercialization of our products and processes. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation or certain other administrative proceedings may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. These activities could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome of any such litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using our technology. Any action to defend or prosecute intellectual property would be costly and result in significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel, regardless of outcome, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. We rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent protection. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, potential licensees, or other parties as well as through other security measures. There can be no assurance that these agreements or any security measure will provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we determine that our proprietary rights have been misappropriated, we may seek to enforce our rights which would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to convert our customers to our advanced generation of hydrophilic coating technology, our royalty revenue may decrease. In our Medical Device business unit, we have licensed our PhotoLink hydrophilic technology to a number of our customers for use in a variety of medical device surface applications. We have several U.S. and international issued patents and pending international patent applications protecting various aspects of these technologies, including compositions, methods of manufacture and methods of coating devices. The expiration dates for these patents and the anticipated expiration dates of the patent applications range from 2015 to 2033. These patents and patent applications represent distinct families, with each family generally covering a successive generation of the technology, including improvements that enhance coating performance, manufacturability, or other important features desired by our customers. Among these, our third generation of PhotoLink hydrophilic technology is protected by a family of patents that are expected to expire in November 2015 (in the U.S.) and October 2016 (in certain other countries). The royalty revenue associated with the third generation technology that has not yet converted, or that is not in the process of converting, to one of our advanced generation technologies comprised approximately 19% of our fiscal 2014 revenue. A majority of the customer products utilizing this early generation technology (representing approximately 14% of our fiscal 2014 revenue) will continue to generate royalty revenue at a reduced royalty rate beyond the expiration of these patents. The royalty obligation for these customer products extends beyond the expiration of these patents because the license also includes rights to our know-how or other proprietary rights. Under these circumstances, the royalty obligation will continue at a reduced royalty rate for a specified number of years, as determined based on the specific terms and conditions of the applicable customer agreement, the date on which the customer’s commercial product was first sold, and other factors. In recent years, we have successfully converted a number of our customer’s products utilizing this early generation technology to one of our advanced generation technologies. While we are actively seeking to convert our customers to one of our advanced generations of our hydrophilic coating technology, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so, or that those customers that have converted, or will convert, will sell products utilizing our technology which will generate earned royalty revenue for us. If we or any of our licensees breach any of the agreements under which we have in-licensed intellectual property from others, we could be deprived of important intellectual property rights and future revenue. We are a party to various agreements through which we have in-licensed or otherwise acquired from third parties rights to certain technologies that are important to our business. In exchange for the rights granted to us under these agreements, we have agreed to meet certain research, development, commercialization, sublicensing, royalty, indemnification, insurance or other obligations. If we or one of our licensees fails to comply with these obligations set forth in the relevant agreement through which we have acquired rights, we may be unable to effectively use, license, or otherwise exploit the relevant intellectual property rights and may be deprived of current or future revenue that is associated with such intellectual property. 26 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO CLINICAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS We may need to invest in human clinical trials involving our drug coated balloon platform. During fiscal 2015, we expect to continue the preclinical testing of our drug coated balloon platform as well as commence a first in-human clinical study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the platform. Our ability to monetize successfully the platform may depend on the success of any clinical trial that we may initiate. Difficulties in connection with the clinical evaluation of our drug coated balloon platform may prevent or delay us or a partner from obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and threaten our ability to timely or cost-effectively commercialize the platform, if at all. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which may be very expensive and time-consuming and may not result in commercially viable products. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and launch new products and enhanced products, our ability to maintain or expand our market position in the markets in which we participate may be materially adversely impacted. A delay in the development or approval of new products and technologies may also adversely impact the contribution of these technologies to our future growth. Healthcare policy changes, including new legislation intended to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly during the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if implemented, would impose limitations on the prices our customers will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for their products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. Because our revenue is typically derived from royalties on products which constitute a percentage of the selling price, these limitations could have an adverse effect on our revenue. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers who make up a significant portion of our customers. The legislation has resulted in a significant total cost increase to the medical device and diagnostic industries, which could have a material, negative impact on both the financial condition of our customers as well as on our customers’ ability to attract financing, their willingness to commit capital to development projects or their ability to commercialize their products utilizing our technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There continues to be substantial risk to our customers, and therefore us, from the uncertainty which continues to surround the future of health care delivery and reimbursement both in the U.S. and abroad. Products incorporating our technologies are subject to continuing regulations and extensive approval or clearance processes. If our licensees are unable to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for such products, then our licensees will not be able to commercialize those products on a timely basis, if at all. Medical devices and biotechnology products incorporating our technologies are subject to regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. To obtain regulatory approval for products incorporating our technologies, extensive preclinical studies as well as clinical trials in humans may be required. Clinical development, including preclinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. The burden of securing regulatory approval for these products typically rests with our licensees. However, we have prepared Drug Master Files and Device Master Files which may be accessed by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to assist them in their review of the applications filed by our licensees. 27 Table of Contents The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming. Historically, most medical devices incorporating our technologies have been subject to the FDA’s 510(k) marketing approval process, which typically lasts from three to nine months. Supplemental or full pre-market approval reviews require a significantly longer period, delaying commercialization. In addition, sales of medical devices outside the U.S. are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sale internationally may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. There can be no assurance that our licensees will be able to obtain regulatory approval for their products on a timely basis, if at all. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, product approval could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. In addition, we are often contractually obligated to keep the details concerning our customers’ research and development efforts (including the timing of expected regulatory filings, approvals and market introductions) confidential. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of products incorporating our technologies or subject us to additional regulation. Failure or delay of our licensees in obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approval or clearance, or the loss of previously obtained approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face liability if we mishandle or improperly dispose of the hazardous materials used in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes. Our research, development and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, certain of our activities are regulated by federal and state agencies in addition to the FDA. For example, activities in connection with disposal of certain chemical waste are subject to regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We could be held liable in the event of improper disposal of such materials, even if these acts were done by third parties. Some of our reagent chemicals must be registered with the agency, with basic information filed related to toxicity during the manufacturing process as well as the toxicity of the final product. Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors.” The market value of shares of our common stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, as a result of sales executed by significant holders of our stock, and also because of short positions taken by investors from time to time in our stock. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, the sale price for our common stock ranged from $18.01 to $25.99 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology, drug delivery and biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 28 Table of Contents 