ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS, STRATEGY AND INDUSTRY We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control including recession and declining consumer confidence. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the United States and world economies are currently experiencing, many of our customers are forced to delay or terminate some of their product development plans. Because we rely on licensing and commercialization of our technology by third parties, we may be severely impacted by the decreasing research and development budgets of our customers. In addition, in an environment of decreasing research and development spending, sales of our In Vitro Technologies products may similarly suffer as a result of the decreased utilization of research-focused products. Although we attempt to manage these risks, any sustained period of decreased research and development spending by our customers and potential customers could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The decrease in available financing for our customers and for new ventures that could potentially become our customers can reduce our potential opportunities. One of the consequences of the economic slowdown has been a decrease in the availability of financing for both start-up and other developing ventures, which can impact our business in several ways. For example, some customers have been unable to obtain additional financing and were forced to cease their operations. Because our financial results depend substantially on the success of our customers in commercializing their products, a reduced ability by companies to take their products to market can substantially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the decrease in available financing has resulted in fewer start-up medical device and biotechnology companies than in prior years. To the extent that fewer new companies are started, the number of potential customers for our technologies will be smaller, and we may be unable to meet our business goals, which could substantially affect our financial performance. The loss of, or significant reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could significantly reduce our revenue, earnings or other operating results. We have two customers that each provided 10% or more of our revenue in fiscal 2009. Revenue from Merck and Johnson & Johnson represented approximately 37% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. In addition, as discussed earlier, we recently entered into a License Agreement with Roche and Genentech which provided for an up front licensing fee of $3.5 million, potential payments of up to approximately $200 million in fees and milestone payments in the event of the successful development and commercialization of multiple products, and payment for development work done on these products. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, or reductions in business from them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. For example, in December 2008, following a strategic review of its business and product portfolio, Merck terminated its collaboration with us relating to the development and potential commercialization of our I-vationtm intravitreal implant and we do not expect to have any revenue from Merck in fiscal 2010. There can be no assurance that revenue from any customer will continue at their historical levels. If we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. The long-term success of our business may suffer if we are unable to expand our licensing base to reduce our reliance upon several major customers. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customer products. We intend to continue pursuing a strategy of licensing our technologies to a diversified base of medical device and drug manufacturers and other customers, thereby expanding the commercialization opportunities for our technologies. Success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract new licensees, to enter into agreements for additional applications with existing licensees and to develop and market new applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, develop and adapt our technologies for new applications in a timely and cost effective manner; that new license agreements will be executed on terms favorable to us; that new applications will be 20 Table of Contents accepted by customers in our target markets; or that products incorporating newly licensed technology, including new applications, will gain regulatory approval, be commercialized or gain market acceptance. Delays or failures in these efforts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Drug delivery and surface modification are competitive markets and carry the risk of technological obsolescence. We operate in a competitive and evolving field and new developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of drug delivery and surface modification. Our drug delivery and surface modification technologies compete with technologies developed by a number of other companies. In addition, many medical device manufacturers have developed, or are engaged in efforts to develop, drug delivery or surface modification technologies for use on their own devices. Some of our existing and potential competitors (especially medical device manufacturers pursuing coating solutions through their own research and development efforts) have greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than us. Competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before us. Products incorporating our competitors’ technologies may gain market acceptance more rapidly than products using ours. Developments by competitors may render our existing and potential products uncompetitive or obsolete. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that new products or technologies developed by others, or the emergence of new industry standards, will not render our products or technologies or licensees’ products incorporating our technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Any new technologies that make our drug delivery or surface modification technologies less competitive or obsolete would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to identify strategic investment and acquisition opportunities may limit our growth. An important part of our growth in the future may involve strategic investments and the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Our identification of suitable investment opportunities and acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the technology, value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability, if any, of investment and acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable investment and acquisition candidates. If we do not make suitable investments and acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The acquisitions that we have made, or any future acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value, or harm our operating results. In recent years we have made several significant acquisitions, including SurModics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (formerly Brookwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), the largest acquisition in our history. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to assimilate acquired operations, personnel, technology, information systems, and internal control systems and products; • diversion of management’s attention, including the need to manage several remote locations with a limited management team; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies. In addition, future acquisitions by us may be dilutive to our shareholders, and cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. Strategic investments may result in impairment charges if the value of any such investment declines significantly. In addition, if we acquire entities that have not yet commercialized products but rather are developing technologies for future commercialization, our earnings per share may fluctuate as we expend significant funds for continued research and development efforts for acquired technology necessary to commercialize such technology. We cannot 21 Table of Contents guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete any investments or acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from investments or acquisitions that we complete. Research and development of new technologies may adversely affect our operating results. The success of our business depends on a number of factors, including our continued research and development of new technologies for future commercialization. In researching and developing such new technologies, we may incur significant expenses that may adversely affect our operating results, including our profitability. Additionally, these activities are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of new medical technologies and as a result, may never result in commercially viable technologies. Our failure to expand our management systems and controls to support anticipated growth or integrate acquisitions could seriously harm our operating results and business. Our operations are expanding, and we expect this trend to continue as we execute our business strategy. Executing our business strategy has placed significant demands on management and our administrative, development, operational, information technology, manufacturing, financial and personnel resources. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, development, customer support and financial control systems, and effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. Otherwise, we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. We recognize revenue in accordance with various complex accounting standards, and changes in circumstances or interpretations may lead to accounting adjustments. Our revenue recognition policies involve application of various complex accounting standards, including Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), and accounting guidance associated with revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Our compliance with such accounting standards often involves management’s judgment regarding whether the criteria set forth in the standards have been met such that we can recognize as revenue the amounts that we receive as payment for our products or services. We base our judgments on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. In addition, the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board may issue new positions or revised guidance on the treatment of complex accounting matters. Changes in circumstances or third-party guidance could cause our judgments to change with respect to our interpretations of these complex standards, and transactions recorded, including revenue recognized, for one or more prior reporting periods, which could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS AND RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES We rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell the products incorporating our technologies, and those third parties may not perform or agreements with those parties could be terminated. A principal element of our business strategy is to enter into licensing arrangements with medical device, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology companies that manufacture products incorporating our technologies. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we derived approximately 62%, 53% and 72% of our revenue, respectively, from royalties and license fees. Although we do market certain diagnostic products and reagents, we do not currently market, distribute or sell our own medical devices or pharmaceutical compounds, nor do we intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Thus, our prospects are greatly dependent on the receipt of royalties from licensees of our technologies. The amount and timing of such royalties are, in turn, dependent on the ability of our licensees to gain successful regulatory approval for, market and sell products incorporating our technologies. Failure of certain licensees to gain regulatory approval or market acceptance for such products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers market and sell (and most manufacture) the products incorporating our licensed technologies. If one or more of our licensees fail to pursue the development or marketing of these products as planned, our revenue and profits may not reach our expectations, or may decline. Additionally, our ability to generate positive operating 22 Table of Contents results in connection with the achievement of development or commercialization milestones may also suffer. For example, as discussed previously, Merck terminated their collaboration with us relating to the development and potential commercialization of our I-vationtm intravitreal implant following a strategic review of its business and product development portfolio in 2008. We do not control the timing and other aspects of the development or commercialization of products incorporating our licensed technologies because our customers may have priorities that differ from ours or their development or marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, resulting in delayed or discontinued products. Hence, the amount and timing of royalty payments received by us will fluctuate, and such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under our standard license agreements, licensees can terminate the license for any reason upon 90 days’ prior written notice. Existing and potential licensees have no obligation to deal exclusively with us in obtaining drug delivery or surface modification technologies and may pursue parallel development or licensing of competing technological solutions on their own or with third parties. A decision by a licensee to terminate its relationship with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited or no redundancy in our manufacturing facilities, and we may lose revenue and be unable to maintain our customer relationships if we lose our production capacity. We manufacture all of the products we sell in our existing production labs in our Eden Prairie, Minnesota, Birmingham, Alabama, and Owings Mills, Maryland facilities. If any of our existing production facilities becomes incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, we may be unable to meet production requirements, we may lose revenue and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our customers, including certain of our licensees. In particular, because most of our customers use these reagents to create royalty-bearing products, failure by us to deliver products, including polymers and reagents, could result in decreased royalty revenue, as well as decreased revenue from the sale of products. Without our existing production facilities, we would have no other means of manufacturing products until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at a particular facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them. We have limited experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products for commercial sale and use, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. Under the terms of certain of our licensing agreements, we may be obligated to manufacture pharmaceutical or biotechnology products for existing or future licensees under appropriate circumstances. In addition, certain potential customers may require that we be responsible for the manufacture of pharmaceutical or biotechnology products in order to enter into licensing agreements with us. The manufacture of pharmaceutical or biotechnology products can be an expensive, time consuming, and complex process. Further, any manufacturer of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products is subject to applicable Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration or other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. Although we have purchased a facility in Alabama and have substantially completed upgrading the facility, we may be unable to maintain our facilities in compliance with cGMP or other applicable regulatory standards. Such a failure to comply with cGMP could result in significant time delays or inability to obtain (and maintain) marketing approval for any future products that we may be required to manufacture, which may result in financial penalties under the terms of license agreements, as well as damage our relationships with our customers in the future. Furthermore, we may be subject to sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions, if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials, the use or misuse of our products or the manufacture and supply of pharmaceutical products. The development and sale of medical devices and component products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. Although we expect that devices incorporating our technologies will be manufactured by others and sold under their own labels, and in most cases our customer agreements provide indemnification against such claims, 23 Table of Contents there can be no guarantee that we will not become involved in the manufacture and supply of commercial quantities of products to licensees, that product liability claims will not be filed against us for such products, that parties indemnifying us will have the financial ability to honor their indemnification obligations or that such manufacturers will not seek indemnification or other relief from us for any such claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We have obtained a level of liability insurance coverage that we believe is appropriate to our activities, however we cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we do not expect to be able to obtain insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies because of alleged defects, whether such recall is instituted by us, by a customer, or is required by a regulatory agency. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue will be harmed if we cannot purchase sufficient reagent components we use in our manufacture of reagents. We currently purchase some of the components we use to manufacture reagents from sole suppliers. If any of our sole suppliers becomes unwilling to supply components to us, incurs an interruption in its production or is otherwise unable to provide us with sufficient material to manufacture our reagents, we will experience production interruptions. If we lose our sole supplier of any particular reagent component or are otherwise unable to procure all components required for our reagent manufacturing for an extended period of time, we may lose the ability to manufacture the reagents our customers require to commercialize products incorporating our technology. This could result in lost royalties and product sales, which would harm our financial results. Adding suppliers to our approved vendor list may require significant time and resources since we typically thoroughly review a supplier’s business and operations to become comfortable with the quality and integrity of the materials we purchase for use with our technology, including reviewing a supplier’s manufacturing processes and evaluating the suitability of materials and packaging procedures the supplier uses. We routinely attempt to maintain multiple suppliers of each of our significant materials, so we have alternative suppliers, if necessary. However, if the number of suppliers of a material is reduced, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain our material requirements on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our operations may be harmed. We are dependent upon key personnel and may not be able to attract qualified personnel in the future. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain and attract highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for such qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance, nor do we have employment agreements with the majority of our employees, except for certain of our executive officers. Although we have non-compete agreements with most employees, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be enforceable or that they will serve to keep employees working for us. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If we cannot adequately protect our technologies and proprietary information, we may be unable to sustain a competitive advantage. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and protect our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. We have been granted U.S. and foreign patents and have U.S. and foreign patent applications pending related to our proprietary technologies. There can be no assurance that any pending patent application will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, that any patents issued will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties, or that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technologies. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies, duplicate any of our technologies or design around our patents. 24 Table of Contents We may become involved in expensive and unpredictable patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings which could result in liability for damages, or impair our development and commercialization efforts. Our commercial success also will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Intellectual property litigation is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. If we were found to be infringing any third party patent or other intellectual property right, we could be required to pay significant damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses from others, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or cease commercialization of our products and processes. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation or U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. These activities could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome of any such litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using our technology. Any action to defend or prosecute intellectual property would be costly and result in significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel, regardless of outcome, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. We rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent protection. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, potential licensees, or other parties as well as through other security measures. There can be no assurance that these agreements or any security measure will provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we or any of our licensees breach any of the agreements under which we have in-licensed intellectual property from others, we could be deprived of important intellectual property rights and future revenue. We are a party to various agreements through which we have in-licensed or otherwise acquired from third parties rights to certain technologies that are important to our business. In exchange for the rights granted to us under these agreements, we agree to meet certain research, development, commercialization, sublicensing, royalty, indemnification, insurance, and other obligations. If we or one of our licensees fails to comply with these obligations set forth in the relevant agreement through which we have acquired rights, we may be unable to effectively use, license, or otherwise exploit the relevant intellectual property rights and may be deprived of current or future revenues that are associated with such intellectual property. RISKS RELATING TO CLINICAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if implemented, would impose limitations on the prices our customers will be able to charge for their products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for their products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. Because a portion of our revenue is typically derived from royalties on products which constitute a percentage of the selling price, these limitations could have an adverse effect on our revenue. 25 Table of Contents In addition, various members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. Various proposals have included reduced Medicare payments, reduced drug spending and increased taxes. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our customers’ products, reduce medical procedure volumes (thereby reducing the number of our customers’ products used), and adversely affect our business, our financial position and results of operations. Products incorporating our technologies are subject to continuing regulations and extensive approval or clearance processes. If our licensees are unable to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals or clearances for such products, then our licensees will not be able to commercialize those products on a timely basis, if at all. Medical devices, biotechnology products or pharmaceutical products incorporating the technologies are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory authorities. In order to obtain regulatory approval for products incorporating our technologies, extensive preclinical studies as well as clinical trials in humans may be required. Clinical development, including preclinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. The burden of securing regulatory approval for these products typically rests with our licensees, the medical device or pharmaceutical customer. However, we have prepared Drug Master Files and Device Master Files which may be accessed by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to assist them in their review of the applications filed by our licensees. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming. Historically, most medical devices incorporating our technologies have been subject to the FDA’s 510(k) marketing approval process, which typically lasts from six to nine months. Supplemental or full pre-market approval reviews require a significantly longer period, delaying commercialization. By contrast, pharmaceutical products incorporating our technologies are subject to the FDA’s New Drug Application process which typically takes a number of years to complete. Additionally, biotechnology products incorporating our technologies are subject to the FDA’s Biologics License Application process, which also typically takes a number of years to complete. In addition, sales of medical devices and pharmaceutical or biotechnology products outside the U.S. are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sale internationally may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. There can be no assurance that our licensees will be able to obtain regulatory approval for their products on a timely basis, or at all. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, product approval could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of products incorporating our technologies or subject us to additional regulation. Failure or delay of our licensees in obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approval or clearance or the loss of previously obtained approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face liability if we mishandle or improperly dispose of the hazardous materials used in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes. Our research, development and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Additionally, certain of our activities are regulated by federal and state agencies in addition to the FDA. For example, activities in connection with disposal of certain chemical waste are subject to regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We could be held liable in the event of improper disposal of such materials, even if these acts were done by third parties. Some of our reagent chemicals must be registered with the agency with basic information filed related to toxicity during the manufacturing process as well as the toxicity of the final product. Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors.” The market value of shares of our common stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, and also because of significant short positions taken by investors from time to time in our stock. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, the sale price for our common stock ranged from $15.96 to $31.69 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology, drug delivery and biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 