ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The loss of one or more of our major customers could significantly reduce our revenue and earnings. We have two customers that each provided more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2006. Revenue from Cordis Corporation and Abbott Laboratories represented approximately 47% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenue for the year ended September 30, 2006. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. There can be no assurance that revenue from any customer will continue at their historical levels. Loss of one or more of our current customers, particularly Cordis, Abbott, or other large customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a few customers for the majority of our revenue. We rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell the products incorporating our technologies and those third parties may not perform or agreements with those parties could be terminated. The principal element of our business strategy is to enter into licensing arrangements with medical device companies that manufacture products incorporating our technologies. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, we derived approximately 76%, 76%, and 70% of our revenue, respectively, from royalties and license fees. We do not currently manufacture, market or sell our own medical devices nor do we intend to do so in the foreseeable future. Thus, our prospects are substantially dependent on the receipt of royalties from licensees of our technologies. The amount and timing of such royalties are, in turn, dependent on the ability of our licensees to gain successful regulatory approval for, market and sell products incorporating our technologies. Failure of certain licensees to gain regulatory approval or market acceptance for such products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers manufacture, market and sell the products incorporating our licensed technologies. If one or more of our licensees fails to pursue the development or marketing of these products as planned, our revenue and profits may not reach our expectations, or may decline. We do not control the timing and other aspects of the development or commercialization of products incorporating our licensed technologies because our customers may have priorities that differ from ours or their development or marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, resulting in delayed or discontinued products. Hence, the amount and timing of royalty payments received by us will fluctuate, and such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under our standard license agreements, licensees can terminate the license for any reason upon 90 days’ prior written notice. Existing and potential licensees have no obligation to deal exclusively with the Company in obtaining surface modification or drug delivery technologies and may pursue parallel development or licensing of competing technological solutions on their own or with third parties. A decision by a licensee to terminate its relationship with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We need to expand our licensing base to reduce our reliance upon several major customers. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customer products. We intend to continue pursuing a strategy of licensing our technologies to a diversified base of medical device manufacturers and other customers, thereby expanding the licensing base for our coating technologies. Success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract new licensees, to enter into agreements for additional applications with existing licensees and to develop and market new applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, develop and adapt our technologies for new applications in a timely and cost effective manner; that new license agreements will be executed on terms favorable to us; that new applications will be accepted by manufacturers in our target markets; 16 or that products incorporating newly licensed technology, including new applications, will gain regulatory approval, be commercialized or gain market acceptance. Delays or failures in these efforts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Surface modification is a competitive market and carries the risk of technological obsolescence. We operate in a competitive and evolving field and new developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of surface modification and drug delivery. Our technologies compete with technologies developed by Affinergy, AST, Biocompatibles International plc, BioSensors, Hydromer, MediVas, pSivida Limited, Specialty Coatings Systems, STS Biopolymers Inc., a division of Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., TyRx, and W.L. Gore, among others. In addition, many medical device manufacturers have developed or are engaged in efforts to develop surface modification or drug delivery technologies for use on their own devices. Some of our existing and potential competitors (especially medical device manufacturers pursuing coating solutions through their own research and development efforts) have greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than us. Competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before us. Products incorporating our competitors’ technologies may gain market acceptance more rapidly than products using ours. Developments by competitors may render our existing and potential products noncompetitive or obsolete. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that new products or technologies developed by others, or the emergence of new industry standards, will not render our products or technologies or licensees’ products incorporating our technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. Any new technologies which make our coating technologies less competitive or obsolete would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adequately protect our technologies and proprietary information, we may be unable to sustain a competitive advantage. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and protect our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. We have been granted U.S. and foreign patents and have U.S. and foreign patent applications pending related to our coating technologies. There can be no assurance that any pending patent application will be approved; that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, that any patents issued will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties, or that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technologies. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies, duplicate any of our technologies or design around our patents. There can be no assurance that our trade secrets or confidentiality agreements with employees, potential licensees or other parties will provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. Our commercial success also will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Intellectual property litigation is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. If we were found to be infringing any third party patent or other intellectual property right, we could be required to pay significant damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses from others, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or cease commercialization of our products and processes. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation or U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. These activities could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome of any such litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using our technology. Any action to defend or 17 prosecute intellectual property would be costly and result in significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel, regardless of outcome, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or the use or misuse of our products. The development and sale of medical devices and component products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. Although we expect that devices incorporating our technologies will be manufactured by others and sold under their own labels, and in most cases our customer agreements provide indemnification against such claims, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not be filed against us for such devices or that such manufacturers will not seek indemnification or other relief from us for any such claims. In addition, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not be filed directly against us with respect to our own products. There can be no assurance that our current product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that, if available, the coverages will be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Furthermore, we do not expect to be able to obtain insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies because of alleged defects, whether such recall is instituted by a device manufacturer or us or required by a regulatory agency. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any adverse results in our Phase I trials for our I-vation™ intravitreal implant could harm our ability to commercialize the implant in a timely, cost-effective manner, if at all. We are currently conducting a Phase I safety trial for our I-vation™ intravitreal implant. Our Phase I trial is intended to help assess the safety and tolerability of the implant in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME), and is being conducted under an investigational new drug application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. A total of thirty subjects were enrolled in this Phase I trial, which enrollment was completed in March 2006, and will be subject to follow-up monitoring for three years. Our ability to commercialize this implant in a timely manner will depend upon the success of this Phase I safety trial, as well as future required clinical trials that will further evaluate and document the safety profile and therapeutic benefit in targeted patient populations. Although the early results of the Phase I trial have not presented any significant safety issues, we cannot be certain the implant will perform as expected in additional clinical tests. Problems in connection with our Phase I trials or in any subsequent phases of required clinical trials may prevent or delay us or a partner obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and threaten our ability to timely or cost-effectively commercialize the implant, if at all. Our Phase I trial is being conducted on a statistically insignificant number of human patients and is not intended to evaluate aspects of the effectiveness of the implant. Because the initial number of tests performed in humans has been relatively small, there is no assurance that the Phase I trials will identify problems that may become evident from a larger base of tests or after a longer period of observation of the patients. We will be able to accurately evaluate the performance of the implant in humans only after extensive testing in large numbers of patients over a period of years. We have a single manufacturing facility and we may lose revenue and be unable to maintain our customer relationships if we lose our production capacity. We manufacture all of the products we sell in our existing production labs in our Eden Prairie, Minnesota facility. If our existing production facility becomes incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, we may be unable to meet production requirements, we may lose revenue and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our licensees. Without our existing production facility, we would have no other means of manufacturing products incorporating our coating technologies until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them. 18 Our revenue will be harmed if we cannot purchase sufficient reagent components we use in our manufacture of reagents. We currently purchase some of the components we use to manufacture coating reagents from sole suppliers. If any of our sole suppliers becomes unwilling to supply components to us, incurs an interruption in its production or is otherwise unable to provide us with sufficient material to manufacture our reagents, we will experience production interruptions. If we lose our sole supplier of any particular reagent component or are otherwise unable to procure all components required for our reagent manufacturing for an extended period of time, we may lose the ability to manufacture the reagents our customers require to commercialize our coating technology. This could result in lost royalties and product sales, which would harm our financial results. Adding suppliers to our approved vendor list may require significant time and resources since we typically thoroughly review a supplier’s business and operations to become comfortable with the quality and integrity of the materials we purchase for use with our technology, including reviewing a supplier’s manufacturing processes and evaluating the suitability of materials and packaging procedures the supplier uses. We routinely attempt to maintain multiple suppliers of each of our significant materials, so we have alternative suppliers if necessary. However, if the number of suppliers of a material is reduced, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain our material requirements on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our operations may be harmed. We are dependent upon key personnel and may not be able to attract qualified personnel in the future. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain and attract highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for such qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance nor do we have employment agreements with any of our employees. Although we have non-compete agreements with most employees, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be enforceable. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are subject to continuing regulations and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. Although coating technologies themselves are not directly regulated by the FDA, the medical devices incorporating the technologies are subject to FDA regulation. The burden of securing FDA approval for these medical devices rests with our licensees (the medical device manufacturers). However, we have prepared Device Master Files which may be accessed by the FDA to assist it in its review of the applications filed by our licensees. Historically, most medical devices incorporating a coating have been subject to the FDA’s 510(k) marketing approval process, which typically lasts from six to nine months. Supplemental or full pre-market approval (“PMA”) reviews require a significantly longer period, delaying commercialization. Furthermore, sales of medical devices outside the U.S. are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sale internationally may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. There can be no assurance that our licensees will be able to obtain regulatory approval for their coated medical devices on a timely basis, or at all. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. In addition, product approval could be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of products incorporating our technologies or subject us to additional regulation. Failure or delay of our licensees in obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approval or clearance or the loss of previously obtained approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our activities are regulated by federal and state agencies in addition to the FDA. For example, activities in connection with disposal of certain chemical waste are subject to regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Some of our reagent chemicals must be registered with the agency with basic information filed related to toxicity during the manufacturing process as well as the toxicity of the final product. Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We use hazardous materials in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes. Our research, development and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts which we believe are appropriate in light of the risk of accident, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors.” The market value of your investment in our common stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, and also because of significant short positions taken by investors from time to time in our stock. In the year ended September 30, 2006, the closing sale price for our common stock ranged from $31.92 to $43.37 per share. As of December 8, 2006, the last reported sale price of our stock was $33.21 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology, drug delivery and biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Failure to identify strategic investment and acquisition opportunities and integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully may limit our growth. An important part of our growth in the future may involve strategic investments and the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Our identification of suitable investment opportunities and acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the technology, value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability, if any, of investment and acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable investment and acquisition candidates. If we do not make suitable investment and acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: an inability to assimilate acquired operations, personnel, technology, information systems, and internal control systems and products; diversion of management’s attention; difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and the loss of key employees of acquired companies. In addition, future acquisitions by us may be dilutive to our shareholders, and cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. Strategic investments may result in impairment charges if the value of any such investment declines significantly. In addition, if we acquire entities that have not yet commercialized products but rather are developing technologies for future commercialization, our earnings per share may fluctuate as we expend significant funds for continued research and development efforts for acquired technology necessary to commercialize such technology. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete successfully any investments or acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from investments or acquisitions that we complete. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 