Risk Factors.” The market value of your investment in our common stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, and also because of significant short positions taken by investors from time to time in our stock. In the year ended September 30, 2005, the closing sale price for our common stock ranged from $23.80 to $46.13 per share. As of December 9, 2005, the last reported sale price of our stock was $38.43 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology, drug delivery and biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Failure to identify strategic investment and acquisition opportunities and integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully may limit our growth. An important part of our growth in the future may involve strategic investments and the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Our identification of suitable investment opportunities and acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the technology, value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks 19 and profitability, if any, of investment and acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable investment and acquisition candidates. If we do not make suitable investment and acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to assimilate acquired operations, personnel, technology, information systems, and internal control systems and products; • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies. In addition, future acquisitions by us may be dilutive to our shareholders, and cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. Strategic investments may result in impairment charges if the value of any such investment declines significantly. In addition, if we acquire entities that have not yet commercialized products but rather are developing technologies for future commercialization, our earnings per share may fluctuate as we expend significant funds for continued research and development efforts for acquired technology necessary to commercialize such technology. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete successfully any investments or acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from investments or acquisitions that we complete. ITEM 