Item 1A. Risk Factors Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the Company. You should carefully consider these risks and the risks identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report when evaluating our forward-looking statements and our Company. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect our business and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements and other information provided this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We have limited continuing operations and assets as a result of the Sale. As a result of the Sale, we no longer have substantial operations or assets. Currently, we are working to (i) complete our obligations pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, (ii) respond to indemnification claims made by Palaeontol in connection with the Purchase Agreement, (iii) pay out the second distribution, if any, to our stockholders, and (iv) explore opportunities to exploit the expertise of our management staff in the oil and gas industry in Kazakhstan. The amount of the second distribution is an estimate and the second distribution, if any, may be much lower than anticipated. The amount of the anticipated second distribution to our stockholders is an estimate that remains subject to various adjustments, including, but not limited to, (i) fees and expenses incurred in connection with the consummation of the Sale and transactions in furtherance thereof, (ii) payment of our other debts, obligations and liabilities, (iii) payments to Messrs. Tolmakov and Cherdabayev of their deferred distribution amounts and payment to Mr. Cherdabayev of his extraordinary event payment, and (iv) the availability of funds to be released from the Escrow, which is subject to certain indemnification claims for a minimum twelve-month period. Because of the uncertainty of these adjustments, stockholders may not receive a second distribution, or the second distribution may be considerably lower than estimated. If we are unsuccessful in satisfying our remaining outstanding obligations under the Purchase Agreement we may have no funds available to distribute in a second distribution. If we are unable to fulfill the obligations still outstanding under the Purchase Agreement prior to the one-year Escrow period, the Escrow could be subject to claims from Palaeontol, which would reduce, and could possible drain the entire Escrow amount leaving no funds available for a second distribution. Any claims made against the Escrow by Palaeontol will likely reduce the amount that would be received by our stockholders in a second distribution. 6 The board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence following the Escrow period and second distribution. In connection with the completion of the Escrow period and the second distribution, if any, based on the advice of management regarding potential business opportunities available to the Company, or the lack thereof, or the advice of the Company’s tax, accounting, legal or other experts, our board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining a source of capital to meet our operating needs, we may be forced to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence. Following completion of the Escrow period and the second distribution, if any, we will have very limited capital to fund operations. We do not currently generate any revenue nor do we expect to do so until such time as we can make an acquisition or exploit an opportunity in the oil and gas industry in Kazakhstan that will allow us to generate revenue. We do not currently expect such to occur prior to completion of the Escrow period and second distribution. The financial crisis and economic conditions have and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our ability to pursue new opportunities. The global financial markets have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital, bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the governments of a number of countries. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished. As a result of the concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of existing debtors specifically, the cost of obtaining money from credit markets has increased. Many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity and have either reduced or, in many cases, ceased to provide any new funding. Even if we are able to identify and take advantage of other opportunities in the oil and gas industry in Kazakhstan, current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or access the capital markets which could make it very difficult to obtain funding to pursue such opportunities. 7 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock price will continue to be volatile and will likely decline. We believe our stock price has settled into its current trading range based on the market’s assumptions about the likelihood and anticipated amount of the second distribution to our stockholders. Upon completion of the Escrow period, in approximately September 2012, we will be better positioned to know and inform the market with regard to the amount of the second distribution, if any, and we anticipate the price of our stock to react accordingly. It is also possible that in connection with the completion of the Escrow period or any second distribution that management and the board of directors may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence. If our common stock is subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: ● make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; ● receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; ● provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for the “penny stocks,” as we as a purchaser’s legal remedies: and ● obtain a signed and dated acknowledgement from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchase has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock is subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide this the information requested by this Item. 