ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Reductions in demand and other factors have caused net losses. The continuing reduction in capital spending by businesses for new technologies, the remaining effects of the recent recession and the market disruptions caused by the September 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and threats of hostilities in the Middle East and Asia had reduced demand in many of the technology markets we serve. As a result of these market conditions, we experienced a significant reduction in demand for our services during fiscal 2002, continuing through fiscal 2003 with some effects for us lingering through fiscal 2005. A new recession, additional outbreaks of hostilities or any other events leading to excess capacity or a continued or increased downturn in the markets we serve would likely negatively affect our net sales. In addition, the communications, computing and data storage, industrial and medical equipment markets of the electronics manufacturing services industry are characterized by intense competition, relatively short product life-cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand. These markets are also subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. If any of these factors or other factors reduce demand for specific products or components that we design or manufacture for our customers, our net sales would likely be negatively affected. Due to these market conditions and factors, we may experience net losses in future periods. 8 Index to Financial Statements The loss of any of our major customers would harm us. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Our two largest customers in fiscal 2006 were Motorola and IBM, which represented approximately 60.5% of our total net sales, including the incremental turnkey revenue in fiscal 2006 from Motorola. In addition, our ten largest customers in fiscal 2006 accounted for approximately 84.3% of our net sales, including the incremental turnkey revenue in fiscal 2006 from Motorola. With our focus on growing our business with our key accounts, we expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers could negatively impact our business. Our major customers may not continue to purchase products and services from us at current levels or at all. In the past, we have lost customers due to the acquisition of our customers, product discontinuation and customers’ shifting production of products to internal facilities. We may lose customers in the future for similar reasons. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any sales shortfalls if we lose a major customer. Our attempts to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. Our business has been adversely affected by reductions or delays in customer orders. We do not typically obtain firm long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers. We work closely with our customers to develop forecasts for future orders, but these forecasts are not binding. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities from forecast volumes or delay production for a number of reasons beyond our control. Any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from our largest customers could cause our net sales to decline significantly and could result in us holding excess inventories of components and materials. In fiscal 2006, these and similar factors caused us to recognize charges for inventory reserves and adjustments of $4.9 million. We may be required to recognize similar charges in future periods. Many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed. As a result, a reduction in customer demand can decrease our gross profit and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants under our worldwide credit facilities, our availability may be limited or we may have to obtain alternative sources of financing. While we did not violate any banking covenants in fiscal 2006, we have historically experienced violations of covenants under our revolving credit facilities and have been required to seek waivers for such violations. Compliance with these covenants in our credit facilities is dependent upon us achieving certain revenue and expense targets in our fiscal 2007 operating plan. If we do not comply with these covenants or if we default on our payment obligations under other debt obligations, our availability under our credit facilities could be reduced or our lenders could declare a default under the credit facilities. In the event of a default or a substantial reduction of availability, we would be required to obtain alternative financing, which could be more expensive than our current arrangement, be dilutive to existing shareholders and divert management’s time and attention. Moreover, we cannot assure that we would be able to obtain alternative financing on favorable terms and on a timely basis, if at all. Our failure to meet any of our covenants under our credit facilities could significantly harm our liquidity and financial position. Our continued viability depends on our ability to generate additional cash from operations or obtain additional sources of funds for working capital. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity depends, in part, on our achieving anticipated revenue targets and managing our expenditure levels versus the following intended expense reductions from our restructuring activities. We may not achieve these targets or manage our expenses to the intended levels. If our operating goals are not met, we will be required to secure additional financing from lenders or sell additional securities. We may not be able to obtain additional capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. If we issue additional equity securities or convertible debt to raise capital, it may be dilutive to your ownership interest. In addition, any additional capital may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as financial or operating covenants. We have been unable to collect all our accounts receivable. Falling demand for the products of our technology customers and liquidity difficulties for these companies have forced us to reach accommodations with a portion of our customers and have at times limited our ability to collect fully our accounts receivable from these customers in fiscal 2006 and 2005. In addition, several significant customers in recent years have filed for bankruptcy protection, which limits our recovery of accounts receivable from these customers. In fiscal 2006, these and similar factors caused us to recognize charges for accounts receivable adjustments of $2.8 million. We may be required to recognize similar charges in future periods. 9 Index to Financial Statements Our acquisition strategy may not succeed. While we did not make any significant acquisitions in fiscal 2005 or 2006, acquisitions have in the past been part of our business strategy historically. We have acquired other companies, assets or product lines that complement or expand our existing business. These acquisitions have not been entirely successful, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we incurred approximately $24.2 million of goodwill impairment charges related to facilities acquired by us in the prior three years. As a result of implementing new accounting pronouncements in fiscal 2003, we recorded an additional goodwill impairment charge of $5.3 million. Although we anticipate seeking further acquisition opportunities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or finance and complete transactions that we select. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, its key personnel may decide not to work for us. We may also have difficulty in integrating acquired businesses, products, services and technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our shareholders. Failure to execute our acquisition strategy may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. During periods of significant growth or restructuring, we may have trouble managing our expanded operations. Rapid growth or contraction can place a significant strain on our management, financial resources and on our information, operations and financial systems. We face risks associated with coordinating multinational operations and reporting systems, diverse technologies and multiple products and services. In addition, our growth has increased our expenses and working capital requirements. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, managing reduction in personnel during business restructuring can present control issues as well. We cannot assure you that we will manage our growth or restructuring activities effectively. Our financial condition could suffer if we fail to successfully defend shareholder lawsuits. We have been a defendant, along with several current and former officers and directors, in a consolidated putative class action captioned: In re PEMSTAR Securities Litigation. We and our Board were also defendants in a consolidated shareholder derivative action that was based on many of the same facts that gave rise to the securities class action. During fiscal 2006 additional legal actions have arisen. For further information about the nature of these actions see Item 3 of this report. The securities action has been settled. If we are not able to successfully obtain final settlement of the consolidated shareholder derivative actions or other similar actions that could arise in the future, our business and financial condition could suffer. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our services. The electronics manufacturing services industry is highly competitive and characterized by low margins. We compete against numerous U.S. and foreign service providers with global operations, as well as those who operate on a local or regional basis. In addition, current and prospective customers continually evaluate the merits of manufacturing products internally. Consolidation in the electronics manufacturing services industry results in a continually changing competitive landscape. The consolidation trend in the industry also results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors who have significant combined resources with which to compete against us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater managerial, manufacturing, engineering, technical, financial, systems, sales and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may: • Respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; • Have greater name recognition, critical mass and geographic and market presence; • Be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities; • Adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements; and • Devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. 10 Index to Financial Statements We also may be operating at a cost disadvantage as compared to competitors who have greater direct buying power from component suppliers, distributors and raw material suppliers or who have lower cost structures. Increased competition from existing or potential competitors could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. We anticipate that our net sales and operating results will fluctuate which could affect the price of our common stock. Our net sales and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. A substantial portion of our net sales in any given quarter may depend on obtaining and fulfilling orders for assemblies to be manufactured and shipped in the same quarter in which those orders are received. Further, a significant portion of our net sales in a given quarter may depend on assemblies configured, completed, packaged and shipped in the final weeks of such quarter. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: • Variations in customer orders relative to our manufacturing capacity; • Variations in the timing of shipment of products to customers; • Our ability to recognize revenue with respect to products held for customers; • Introduction and market acceptance of our customers’ new products; • Changes in competitive and economic conditions generally or in our customers’ markets; • Effectiveness of our manufacturing processes, including controlling costs; • Changes in cost and availability of components or skilled labor; and • The timing and price we pay for acquisitions and related acquisition costs. Our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in a quarter would likely adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. Also, changes in our product assembly mix may cause our margins to fluctuate, which could negatively impact our results of operations for that period. Results in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. It is possible that in one or more future periods our results of operations will fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our predictions of future operating results may not be achieved. From time to time in earnings releases and otherwise, we may publish forecasts or other forward-looking statements, or comment on the estimates of financial analysts, regarding our future results, including estimated revenues or net earnings. Any forecast of, or comment on, our future performance reflects various assumptions. These assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties, and as a matter of course, any number of them may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous risks and other factors (including those described in this discussion), many of which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or comments or that the variation from such forecasts or comments will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, but instead are encouraged to utilize our entire publicly available mix of historical and forward-looking information, as well as other available information affecting our company and our services, when evaluating our prospective results of operations. Shortages or price fluctuations in component parts specified by our customers could delay product shipments and adversely affect our profitability. Many of the products we manufacture require one or more components that we order from sole-source suppliers. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production of all products using that component or cause cost increases in the services we provide. In the past, some of the materials we use, such as capacitors and memory and logic devices, have 11 Index to Financial Statements been subject to industry-wide shortages. As a result, suppliers have been forced to allocate available quantities among their customers and we have not been able to obtain all of the materials desired. Our inability to obtain these needed materials could slow production or assembly, delay shipments to our customers, increase costs and reduce operating income. In certain circumstances, we may bear the risk of periodic component price increases. Accordingly, some component price increases could increase costs and reduce our operating income. In addition, if we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may bear the risk of fluctuations in materials costs, scrap and excess inventory, all of which adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to forecast our future inventory needs based upon the anticipated demand of our customers. Inaccuracies in making these forecasts or estimates could result in a shortage or an excess of materials. A shortage of materials could lengthen production schedules and increase costs. An excess of materials may increase the costs of maintaining inventory and may increase the risk of inventory obsolescence, both of which may increase expenses and decrease our profit margins and operating income. If we are unable to respond to rapidly changing technologies and process developments, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing technologies and continuing process developments. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our core technologies could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. We cannot assure you that we will effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. If we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of these technologies may require us to make significant capital investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital for these purposes in the future or that investments in new technologies will result in commercially viable technological processes. The loss of revenue and earnings to us from these changing technologies and process developments could adversely affect us. Operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently have foreign operations in China, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, Romania, Singapore and Thailand some of which have incurred continuing losses. There is a risk that such losses may be ongoing or require a discontinuance of operations. In such an event, we may not be able to do so without incurring additional losses. We may in the future expand into other international regions. We have limited experience in managing geographically dispersed operations and in operating in foreign countries. We also purchase a significant number of components manufactured in foreign countries. Because of the scope of our international operations, we are subject to the following risks, which could adversely impact our results of operations: • Economic or political instability; • Transportation delays and interruptions; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Increased employee turnover and labor unrest; • Longer payment cycles; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Incompatibility of systems and equipment used in foreign operations; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel and diverse cultures; and • Less developed infrastructures. 12 Index to Financial Statements In addition, changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to increased duties, increased regulatory requirements, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of or increase in tariffs and limitations on imports or exports. Also, we could be negatively affected if our host countries revise their policies away from encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade, including tax holidays. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, or we may be deemed to be infringing the intellectual property rights of others, either of which would negatively affect our ability to compete and our results. We rely on our proprietary technology, and we expect that future technological advances made by us will be critical to remain competitive. Therefore, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology. We cannot be certain that patents we have or that may be issued as a result of our pending patent applications will protect or benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing technologies. We also cannot be certain that others will not develop our unpatented proprietary technology or effective competing technologies on their own. From time to time, third parties including our customers and competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. In this regard, in August 2002, we were named as defendant in one of a number of actions currently being pursued by the Lemelson Foundation Partnership based on alleged infringements of patent rights it claims in certain imaging analysis technology. The litigation has been stayed pending the resolution of other litigation, to which we are not a party, asserting the invalidity and/or unenforceability of certain Lemelson patents. Patents held by other companies, including Lemelson, may be determined to be valid, and some of our products may ultimately be determined to infringe the patents or other intellectual property of other companies. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. Our future success largely depends on the skills and efforts of our executive management and our engineering, manufacturing and sales employees. We do not have employment contracts or non-competition agreements with any of our executive management or other key employees. The loss of services of any of our executives or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Our continued growth will also require us to attract, motivate, train and retain additional skilled and experienced managerial, engineering, manufacturing and sales personnel. We face intense competition for such personnel. We may not be able to attract, motivate and retain personnel with the skills and experience needed to successfully manage our business and operations. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, which expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. Compliance with these environmental laws is a significant consideration for us because we use metals and other hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. We may be liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleaning up properties we own or operate if they are or become contaminated by the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused the release. In addition, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of our wastes, may be liable for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. In the event of contamination or violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages including fines, penalties and the costs of remedial actions and could also be subject to revocation of our discharge permits. Any such penalties or revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby harming our business. 13 Index to Financial Statements Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial results and have a material adverse impact on our business and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports our operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Due to the low level of our market value at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the requirements for this management assessment and independent auditors’ report on internal controls will be suspended for fiscal 2006 under current SEC rules. These requirements will resume for fiscal 2007. During the course of this assessment with respect to our fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, we identified several material weaknesses in our system of internal control, which have been remediated. Failure to successfully identify and remediate material weaknesses in our system of internal control could affect the accuracy of our financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price when any such inaccuracies are discovered and disclosed. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in response to quarterly operating results and other factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future in response to quarterly operating results and other factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect your ability to trade your shares and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition, these fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline and may cause dilution to our existing shareholders. As of May 31, 2006, our directors, executive officers and largest shareholder beneficially owned an aggregate of 6,702,528 shares, or 14.6%, of our common stock. In addition, substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our shareholders or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. As noted above, we may need additional funding, which may be raised through issuances of equity securities and securities convertible into equity securities, to provide us with the capital to reach our objectives. We also have the right to issue, at the discretion of our board of directors, shares upon such terms and conditions and at such prices as our board of directors may establish. In addition, we may in the future issue preferred stock that might have priority over our common stock as to distributions and liquidation proceeds. Such offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and could cause a dilution of the net tangible book value of such shares. Provisions in our charter documents and Minnesota law may delay or prevent an unsolicited takeover effort to acquire our company, which could inhibit your ability to receive an acquisition premium for your shares. Provisions of our amended articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and provisions of Minnesota law may delay or prevent an unsolicited takeover effort to acquire our company on terms that you may consider to be favorable. These provisions include the following: • No cumulative voting by shareholders for directors; • A classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • The ability of our board to set the size of the board of directors, to create new directorships and to fill vacancies; 14 Index to Financial Statements • The ability of our board, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences that are superior to our common stock; • The ability of our board to amend the bylaws; • A shareholder rights plan, which discourages the unauthorized acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or an unauthorized exchange or tender offer; • Restrictions under Minnesota law on mergers or other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock; and • A requirement that at least two-thirds of our shareholders and at least two-thirds of our directors approve certain amendments of our articles of incorporation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Index to Financial Statements 