Item 1A. Risk Factors A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations, ourability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments or to implement our business strategy. Our business is heavily dependent upon the price of and demand for oil production and the level of such production will be subject to wide fluctuations and depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil; • the price and quantity of imports of crude oil; • political conditions and events in other oil-producing countries, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East, Iran, Nigeria and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • domestic government regulation, legislation and policies; • the level of global oil inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • the price availability of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. 10 Any continued or extended decline in the price of crude oil or natural gas will adversely affect: • our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations; • the value of our proved oil reserves; • the economic viability of certain of our drilling prospects; • our borrowing capacity; and • our ability to obtain additional capital. In December 2005 we were granted our first export quota from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan (“MEMR”), which allowed us to begin exporting oil for sale in the world market in January 2006. We have applied for and been granted an export quota each month since, with the exception of February 2006, when we did not apply for a quota. Prior to January 2006, we were limited to selling our test production to the domestic market in Kazakhstan. The price of oil in the domestic market in Kazakhstan is materially lower than the price in the world market. There is no guarantee that the Republic of Kazakhstan will continue to grant us export quotas in the future. In the event we are not granted an export quota in the future, we will be limited to selling our production to the domestic Kazakhstan market, which likely will result in us realizing lower revenue per barrel of oil sold than we would realize in the world market. We have not entered into crude oil hedging arrangements on any of our anticipated sales. However, we may in the future enter into such arrangements in order to reduce our exposure to price risks. Such arrangements may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil prices. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 11 You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future values decline or costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our ability to finance operations; individual properties could cease being commercially viable; affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. Twenty two percent of our proven properties are undeveloped; therefore the risk associated with our success is greater than would be the case if all of our properties were categorized as “proved developed producing.” Because a portion of our proved reserves (approximately 22%) are “Proved Undeveloped” additional capital for the drilling and completion of an additional well will be required before these reserves become productive. Further, because of the inherent uncertainties associated with drilling for oil and gas, this well may never be developed to the extent that it develops into positive cash flow. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, it could take several years to achieve positive cash flow from our proved undeveloped reserves. We will be unable to produce up to 84% of our proved reserves if we are not able to extend our current contract or obtain a new contract from the Republic of Kazakhstan, which would likely require us to terminate our operations. Under our current contract for exploration of hydrocarbons on our properties we have the right to produce oil and gas only until July 2009, yet 84% of our proved reserves are scheduled to be produced after July 2009. We have the exclusive right to negotiate a commercial production contract as per the terms of our exploration contract. The MEMR does not make public its determinations on the granting of commercial production rights. Based on discussions with the MEMR, we have learned that the primary factors used by the MEMR in determining whether to grant commercial production rights were whether the contract holder’s fulfillment of minimum work program commitments, proof of commercial discovery and submission of an approved development plan by a third-party petroleum institute in Kazakhstan to exploit the established commercial reserves. Typically, if commercial production rights are not granted it is because the contract holder has failed to make a commercial discovery within their contract territory and had decided to abandon the contract territory or the contract holder has insufficient funds to complete its minimum work program requirement and was unable to complete the necessary work to substantiate the presence of commercially producible reserves to the MEMR. Our efforts are focused toward meeting our minimum work program requirements and making and substantiating commercial discoveries in each of identified structures to support our application for commercial production rights. If we are not granted commercial production rights prior to the expiration of our exploration contract, we may lose our right to produce the reserves on our current properties. If we are unable to produce those reserves, we will be unable to realize revenues and earnings and to fund operations and we would most likely be unable to continue as a going concern. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. 12 A “prospect” is a property which, based on available seismic and geological data, we believe shows potential oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation and interpretation. There is no way to accurately predict in advance of incurring drilling and completion costs whether a prospect will be economically viable. Even with seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area, we cannot know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, will be present in commercial quantities. The analysis that we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and /or producing fields may not be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. If we drill additional unsuccessful wells, our drilling success rate may decline and we may not achieve our targeted rate of return. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • The spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. 14 Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or even injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. Any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as on the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and future production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploration and exploitation activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production. Our activities, and correspondingly, our ability to generate revenue to support operations, could be adversely affected because of inadequate infrastructure in the region where our properties are located. Our exploration and development activities could suffer due to inadequate infrastructure in the region. We are working to improve the infrastructure on our properties. Any problem or adverse change affecting our operational infrastructure, or infrastructure provided by third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, if we are unsuccessful in developing the infrastructure on our properties it could have 15 a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations. As the price of oil and natural gas has remained high, demand for production equipment and personnel has also remained high, resulting, in some cases in shortages of equipment and skilled personnel. In addition, larger producers may be able to secure access to such equipment by offering drilling companies more lucrative terms. As demand for services and personnel increases, the cost also increases, which can delay our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow as well as significantly increasing the cost of producing those reserves, thereby having a negative impact on anticipated net income. The unavailability or high price of transportation systems could adversely affect our ability to deliver our oil on terms that would allow us to operate profitably, or at all. Because of the location of our properties, the crude oil we produce must be transported by truck or by rail. In the future it will likely also be transported by pipelines. These railways and pipelines are operated by state-owned entities or other third parties, and there can be no assurance that these transportation systems will always be functioning and available, or that the transportation costs will remain at acceptable levels. In addition, any increase in the cost of transportation or reduction in its availability to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to procure sufficient transportation capacity on economical terms, if at all. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources that are substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able both to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. There is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel or raising additional capital. Risks Relating to Our Business If you purchase shares of our stock, your investment will be subject to the same risks inherent in international operations, including, but not limited to, adverse governmental actions, political risks, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. We believe that the present policies of the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan are favorable to foreign investment and to exploration and production and we are not aware of any 16 impending changes. While there is a certain amount of bureaucratic “red tape” we have significant experience working in Kazakhstan, and good relationships with government agencies at many levels. We, however, remain subject to all the risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, uncertain legal and political systems, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. Our primary oil and gas properties are located in Kazakhstan, which until 1990 was part of the Soviet Union. Kazakhstan retains many of the laws and customs of the former Soviet Union, but has and is continuing to develop its own legal, regulatory and financial systems. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of our agreements; in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. If we are successful in establishing commercially producible reserves on our properties, an application will be made for a commercial production contract. We have the exclusive right to negotiate this contract for the ADE Block and Extended Territory, and the government is required to conduct these negotiations under the “Law of Petroleum.” The terms of the commercial production contract will establish the royalty and other payments due to the government in connection with commercial production. At the time the commercial production contract is issued, we will be required to begin repaying the government its historical investment costs of exploration and development of the ADE Block and the Extended Territory. Our obligation associated with the ADE Block is approximately $6 million. Our obligation associated with the Extended Territory is approximately $5.3 million. If satisfactory terms for commercial production rights cannot be negotiated, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 