ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause the actual results of our operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. We encourage you to read this section carefully. Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of our industry and changes in consumer confidence and in economic conditions in general. Adverse changes or continued uncertainty with respect to these factors may lead to a downturn in our business. The towing and recovery industry is cyclical in nature and historically the industry has been affected by changes in consumer confidence and in economic conditions in general. The current global financial crisis and extreme volatility and disruption in domestic and international capital and credit markets have caused significant erosion in consumer confidence. As a result, the overall demand for our products has been materially and negatively affected, and the level of future sales of our products is uncertain. A prolonged economic downturn, and slow or negative growth in the domestic and global economy, may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. Our demand from our customers and towing operators is affected by the availability of capital and access to credit. The ability of our customers and of towing operators to purchase our products is affected by the availability of capital and credit to them. Our customers rely on floor plan financing in connection with the purchase of our products, and the availability of that financing on acceptable terms has a direct effect on the volume of their purchases. Additionally, in many cases, a towing operator’s decision to purchase our products from one of our distributors is dependent upon their ability to obtain financing upon acceptable terms. Recent volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, principally in the U.S. and Europe, has decreased the availability of capital to, and credit capacity of, our customers and of towing operators. In addition, at least one provider of floor plan financing has exited the market, making floor plan financing increasingly difficult for our customers to secure. This reduced availability of capital and credit has negatively affected the ability and capacity of our customers and of towing operators to purchase towing and related equipment. This, in turn, has negatively impacted sales of our products. If customers are unable to access capital or credit, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and as a result, could negatively affect our business and operating results. 7 Overall demand from our customers may be affected by increases in their fuel and insurance costs and changes in weather conditions. In recent years, our customers have experienced substantial increases in fuel and other transportation costs, and in the cost of insurance, and while many of these costs have moderated in recent months, there can be no assurance that these costs will not continue to be volatile, or again increase, for our customers in the future. Additionally, our customers also have, from time to time, been subject to unpredictable and varying weather conditions which could, among other things, impact the cost and availability of fuel and other materials. Any of these factors could negatively affect the ability of our customers to purchase, and their capacity for purchasing, towing and related equipment, and, consequently, have a material negative effect upon our business and operating results. Our dependence upon outside suppliers for our raw materials, including aluminum, steel, petroleum-related products and other purchased component parts, leaves us subject to changes in price and delays in receiving supplies of such materials or parts. We are dependent upon outside suppliers for our raw material needs and other purchased component parts, and although we believe that these suppliers will continue to meet our requirements and specifications, and that alternative sources of supply are available, events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the cost or availability of raw materials and component parts. Shipment delays, unexpected price increases or changes in payment terms from our suppliers of raw materials or component parts could impact our ability to secure necessary raw materials or component parts, or to secure such materials and parts at favorable prices. To partially offset price increases for raw materials and component parts, we have, from time to time, implemented general price increases and cost surcharges. While we have attempted to pass these increased costs on to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so. Additionally, demand for our products could be negatively affected by the unavailability of truck chassis, which are manufactured by third parties and are frequently supplied by us, or are purchased separately by our distributors or by towing operators. Although we believe that sources of our raw materials and component parts will continue to be adequate to meet our requirements and that alternative sources are available, shortages, price increases or delays in shipments of our raw materials and component parts could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, competitive position and reputation. Our international operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business results, including by restrictive taxation or other government regulation and by foreign currency fluctuation. A significant portion of our net sales and production in 2008 were outside the United States, primarily in Europe. As a result, our operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of restrictive taxation policies, changing political conditions and governmental regulations. Also, a substantial portion of our net sales derived outside the United States, as well as salaries of employees located outside the United States and certain other expenses, are denominated in foreign currencies, including British pounds and the Euro. We are, therefore, subject to risk of financial loss resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our competitors could impede our ability to attract or retain customers. The towing and recovery equipment manufacturing industry is highly competitive. Competition for sales exists domestically and internationally at the manufacturer, distributor and towing-operator levels and is based primarily on product quality and innovation, reputation, technology, customer service, product availability and price. Competition for sales also comes from the market for used towing and recovery equipment. Certain of our competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources and may provide more attractive dealer and retail customer financing alternatives than us. If these competitors are able to make it more difficult for us to attract or retain customers, it could have a negative impact on our sales, revenue and financial performance. 8 Our future success depends upon our ability to develop or acquire proprietary products and technology. Historically, we have been able to develop or acquire patented and other proprietary product innovations which have allowed us to produce what management believes to be technologically advanced products relative to most of our competition. However, certain of our patents have expired, and others will expire in the next few years, and as a result, we may not have a continuing competitive advantage through proprietary products and technology. In addition, pursuant to the terms of a consent judgment entered into in 2000 with the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, we are required to offer non-exclusive royalty-bearing licenses to certain of our key patents to all wrecker and car carrier manufacturers. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products and technology in the future, our ability to maintain market share, and, consequently, our revenues and operating results, may be negatively affected. The requirements and restrictions imposed by our senior credit facility restrict our ability to operate our business, and failure to comply with these requirements and restrictions could adversely affect our business. The terms of our senior credit facility restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or investments in certain situations, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, incur liens, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or their assets. Our senior credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial tests, and to comply with certain other reporting, affirmative and negative covenants. If we fail to comply with the requirements of our senior credit facility, such non-compliance would result in an event of default. If not waived by the lending group, such event of default would result in the acceleration of the amount due under the senior credit facility, and may permit our lenders to foreclose on our assets that secure the senior credit facility. Our ability to service our credit arrangements may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Interest on our obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility and other credit arrangements is connected to the LIBOR rate or prime rate. Therefore, an increase in the LIBOR rate or the prime rate would increase interest expense and could have an effect on our ability to satisfy our obligations under those arrangements outstanding at any particular time. Our liquidity and access to capital resources could be affected by increasing interest rates. We depend upon skilled labor to manufacture our products, and if we experience problems hiring and retaining skilled labor, our business may be negatively affected. The timely manufacture and delivery of our products requires an adequate supply of skilled labor, and the operating costs of our manufacturing facilities can be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled positions. Accordingly, our ability to increase sales, productivity and net earnings will be limited to a degree by our ability to employ the skilled laborers necessary to meet our requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to efficiently operate our facilities. In addition, while our employees are not currently members of a union, there can be no assurance that the employees at any of our facilities will not choose to become unionized in the future. We are subject to certain retained liabilities related to the wind down of our towing services operations. We sold or closed all remaining towing services businesses during 2003. As a result, almost all of our former towing services businesses now operate under new ownership, and in general the customary operating liabilities of these businesses were assumed by the new owners. Our subsidiaries that sold these businesses may be subject to some continuing liabilities with respect to their pre-sale operations, including, for example, liabilities related to litigation. Miller Industries, Inc. may be subject to some of such continuing liabilities by virtue of certain direct contractual parent guarantees. 9 In October 2005, our subsidiary, RoadOne, Inc., filed for liquidation under Chapter 7 of the federal bankruptcy laws in the Bankruptcy Court of the Eastern District of Tennessee and a trustee was appointed. In December 2006, the trustee’s final report was approved by the United States trustee, and the final decree was entered on June 19, 2007. Any loss of the services of our key executives could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of our management team. The loss of services of one or more key members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or an inability to acquire or maintain insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We are subject to various claims, including product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business, and may at times be a party to various legal proceedings incidental to our business. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms and our historical claims experience. A successful product liability or other claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or the inability of us to acquire or maintain insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price may fluctuate greatly as a result of the general volatility of the stock market. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price for our common stock. Our quarterly operating results, changes in earnings estimated by analysts, if any, changes in general conditions in our industry or the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent months the stock market has experienced a significant decline. This decline has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Our Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer and his children own, in total, a substantial interest in our common stock. They may vote their shares in ways with which you disagree. William G. Miller, our chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 4.13% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Mr. Miller’s adult children, Christopher Charles Miller, Sarah Louise Miller and William G. Miller, II, beneficially own, in total, approximately 7.75% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Any of these shareholders could vote their shares in ways with which you do not agree, including in connection with the election of directors or the approval of a business combination involving the Company. Mr. Miller does not exercise any voting, investment or other authority with respect to, and has no pecuniary interest in, the shares of our common stock that are held by his children, and he expressly disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares. Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive to acquire us in the future or may negatively affect our stock price. Our charter and bylaws contain restrictions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us, including, without limitation, prohibitions on shareholder action by written consent and advance notice requirements regarding amendments to certain provisions of our charter and bylaws. In addition, our charter authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The rights and preferences for any series of preferred stock may be set by the board of directors, in its sole discretion and without shareholder approval, and the rights and preferences of any such preferred stock may be superior to those of common stock and thus may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 ITEM 