ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of all known material risks that may cause the actual results of our operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. We encourage you to read this section carefully. Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of our industry and changes in consumer confidence and in economic conditions in general. Adverse changes or continued uncertainty with respect to these factors may lead to a downturn in our business. The towing and recovery industry is cyclical in nature and historically the industry has been affected by changes in consumer confidence and in economic conditions in general. Concerns over the slow economic recovery and continued volatility and disruption in domestic and international capital and credit markets have caused significant erosion in consumer confidence. As a result, the overall demand for our products from our commercial customers has been negatively affected, and the level of future sales of our products is uncertain. A prolonged economic downturn, and slow or negative growth in the domestic and global economy, may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. Our demand from our customers and towing operators is affected by the availability of capital and access to credit. The ability of our customers and of towing operators to purchase our products is affected by the availability of capital and credit to them. Our customers rely on floor plan financing in connection with the purchase of our products, and the availability of that financing on acceptable terms has a direct effect on the volume of their purchases. Additionally, in many cases, a towing operator’s decision to purchase our products from one of our distributors is dependent upon their ability to obtain financing upon acceptable terms. Volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, principally in the U.S. and Europe, has decreased the availability of capital to, and credit capacity of, our customers and of towing operators. In addition, at least one provider of floor plan financing h as exited the market, making floor plan financing increasingly difficult for our customers to secure. This reduced availability of capital and credit has negatively affected the ability and capacity of our customers and of towing operators to purchase towing and related equipment. This, in turn, has negatively impacted sales of our products. If customers are unable to access capital or credit, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and as a result, could negatively affect our business and operating results. The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, our largest customer could adversely affect our results of operations. For 2010 and 2009, 19.6% and 19.4%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales were made to the U.S. federal government through prime contractors. Prior to 2009, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in any fiscal year. The loss of our U.S. government work, in whole or in part, or the failure to secure follow-on orders from the U.S. government could adversely affect our results of operations. Our U.S. government business is subject to the following risks, among others: (i) this business is susceptible to changes in U.S. government spending, which may reduce future revenues; (ii) most of our contracts with governmental entities through prime contractors are fixed-price contracts, and our actual costs on any of these contracts could exceed our projected costs, (iii) competition for the award of these contracts is intense, and we may not be successful in bidding on future contracts, and (iv) the products we sell to governmental entities are subject to highly technical requirements, and any failure to comply with these requirements could result in unanticipated retrofit costs, delayed acceptance of products, late or reduced payment or cancellation of the contract. 7 Our dependence upon outside suppliers for our raw materials, including aluminum, steel, petroleum-related products and other purchased component parts, leaves us subject to changes in price and delays in receiving supplies of such materials or parts. We are dependent upon outside suppliers for our raw material needs and other purchased component parts, and although we believe that these suppliers will continue to meet our requirements and specifications, and that alternative sources of supply are available, events beyond our control could have an adverse effect on the cost or availability of raw materials and component parts. Shipment delays, unexpected price increases or changes in payment terms from our suppliers of raw materials or component parts could impact our ability to secure necessary raw materials or component parts, or to secure such materials and parts at favorable prices. To partially offset price increases for raw materials and component parts, we have, from time to time, implemented general price increases and cost surcharges. While we have attempted to pass these increased costs on to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so. Additionally, demand for our products could be negatively affected by the unavailability of truck chassis, which are manufactured by third parties and are frequently supplied by us, or are purchased separately by our distributors or by towing operators. Although we believe that sources of our raw materials and component parts will continue to be adequate to meet our requirements and that alternative sources are available, shortages, price increases or delays in shipments of our raw materials and component parts could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, competitive position and reputation. Overall demand from our customers may be affected by increases in their fuel and insurance costs and changes in weather conditions. In recent years, our customers have experienced substantial increases in fuel and other transportation costs, and in the cost of insurance, and while many of these costs have remained stable since 2009, there can be no assurance that these costs will not continue to be volatile, or again increase, for our customers in the future. Additionally, our customers also have, from time to time, been subject to unpredictable and varying weather conditions which could, among other things, impact the cost and availability of fuel and other materials. Any of these factors could negatively affect the ability of our customers to purchase, and their capacity for purchasing, towing and related equipment, and, consequently, have a material negative effect upon our business and operating results. Our international operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business results, including by restrictive taxation or other government regulation and by foreign currency fluctuation. A significant portion of our net sales and production in 2010 were outside the United States, primarily in Europe. As a result, our operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of restrictive taxation policies, changing political conditions and governmental regulations. Also, a substantial portion of our net sales derived outside the United States, as well as salaries of employees located outside the United States and certain other expenses, are denominated in foreign currencies, including the British pound and the Euro. We are, therefore, subject to risk of financial loss resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our competitors could impede our ability to attract or retain customers. The towing and recovery equipment manufacturing industry is highly competitive. Competition for sales exists domestically and internationally at the manufacturer, distributor and towing-operator levels and is based primarily on product quality and innovation, reputation, technology, customer service, product availability and price. Competition for sales also comes from the market for used towing and recovery equipment. Certain of our competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources and may provide more attractive dealer and retail customer financing alternatives than us. If these competitors are able to make it more difficult for us to attract or retain customers, it could have a negative impact on our sales, revenue and financial performance. 8 Our future success depends upon our ability to develop or acquire proprietary products and technology. Historically, we have been able to develop or acquire patented and other proprietary product innovations which have allowed us to produce what management believes to be technologically advanced products relative to most of our competition. However, certain of our patents have expired, and others will expire in the next few years, and as a result, we may not have a continuing competitive advantage through proprietary products and technology. In addition, pursuant to the terms of a consent judgment entered into in 2000 with the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, we are required to offer non-exclusive royalty-bearing licenses to certain of our key patents to all wrecker and car carrier manufacturers. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products and technology in the future, our abil ity to maintain market share, and, consequently, our revenues and operating results, may be negatively affected. The requirements and restrictions imposed by our current credit facility restrict our ability to operate our business, and failure to comply with these requirements and restrictions could adversely affect our business. The terms of our current credit facility restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, guarantee the indebtedness of another person, pay dividends or make loans or investments in certain situations, incur liens, sell, discount or dispose of accounts receivable or promissory notes, enter into any new line of business, permit certain loans to officers or employees, sell, transfer, convey or grant any security interest in any material trademark, merge or consolidate with any other person, or sell, transfer or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Our current credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial tests, and to comply with certain other reporting, affirmative and negative covenants. If we fail to comply with the requirements of our current credit facility, such non-compliance would result in an event of default. If not waived by the bank, such event of default would result in the acceleration of any amounts due under the current credit facility, and may permit the bank to foreclose on our assets. Our ability to service our credit arrangements may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Interest on our obligations outstanding under our current credit facility and other credit arrangements is connected to the LIBOR rate or prime rate. Therefore, an increase in the LIBOR rate or the prime rate would increase interest expense and could have an effect on our ability to satisfy our obligations under those arrangements outstanding at any particular time. Our liquidity and access to capital resources could be affected by increasing interest rates. We depend upon skilled labor to manufacture our products, and if we experience problems hiring and retaining skilled labor, our business may be negatively affected. The timely manufacture and delivery of our products requires an adequate supply of skilled labor, and the operating costs of our manufacturing facilities can be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled positions. Accordingly, our ability to increase sales, productivity and net earnings will be limited to a degree by our ability to employ the skilled laborers necessary to meet our requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to efficiently operate our facilities. In addition, while our employees are not currently members of a union, there can be no assurance that the employees at any of our facilities will not choose to become unionized in the future. Any loss of the services of our key executives could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of our management team. The loss of services of one or more key members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. 9 A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or an inability to acquire or maintain insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We are subject to various claims, including product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business, and may at times be a party to various legal proceedings incidental to our business. We maintain reserves and liability insurance coverage at levels based upon commercial norms and our historical claims experience. A successful product liability or other claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or the inability of us to acquire or maintain insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price may fluctuate greatly as a result of the general volatility of the stock market. From time to time, there may be significant volatility in the market price for our common stock. Our quarterly operating results, changes in earnings estimated by analysts, if any, changes in general conditions in our industry or the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive to acquire us in the future or may negatively affect our stock price. Our charter and bylaws contain restrictions that may discourage other persons from attempting to acquire control of us, including, without limitation, prohibitions on shareholder action by written consent and advance notice requirements regarding amendments to certain provisions of our charter and bylaws. In addition, our charter authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The rights and preferences for any series of preferred stock may be set by the board of directors, in its sole discretion and without shareholder approval, and the rights and preferences of any such preferred stock may be superior to those of common stock and thus may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 