Item 1A. Risk Factors Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the Company. You should carefully consider these risks and the risks identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the notes to the financial statements included in this report when evaluating our forward-looking statements and our Company. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect our business and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements and other information provided in this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We have no operations and minimal assets, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to return any additional value to our stockholders. We no longer have operations and as a result of the Sale, the repayment of our outstanding notes, the first and second cash distributions to our stockholders and the winding up of our operations in Kazakhstan, we have very limited assets. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern or to return any additional value to our stockholders. While we will continue to look for opportunities to exploit the expertise of our management staff as time and financial resources allow, there is no guarantee that we will we be able to successful in our efforts. If we are not successful, our management and the board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence, which would result in a complete loss in the value of the common stock of the Company. Shareholders Who Hold Unregistered Shares of Our Common Stock Are Subject to Resale Restrictions Pursuant To Rule 144, Due To Our Status As A “Shell Company.” Pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Rule 144”), a “shell company” is defined as a company that has no or nominal operations; and, either no or nominal assets; assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents; or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. As such, we are a shell company pursuant to Rule 144, and as such, sales of our securities pursuant to Rule 144 are not able to be made until: 1) we have ceased to be a shell company; 2) we have filed all of our required periodic reports for at least the previous one year period prior to any sale pursuant to Rule 144; and 3) a period of at least twelve months has elapsed from the date “Form 10 information” (i.e., information similar to that which would be found in a Form 10 Registration Statement filing with the SEC) has been filed with the Commission reflecting the Company’s status as a non-shell company. Because none of our non-registered securities can be sold pursuant to Rule 144, until at least a year after we cease to be a shell company, any non-registered securities we sell in the future or issue to management or service providers in consideration for services rendered or for any other purpose will have no liquidity until and unless such securities are registered with the Commission and/or until a year after we cease to be a shell company and have complied with the other requirements of Rule 144, as described above. As a result, it may be harder for us to pay management or other service providers with our securities instead of cash. Furthermore, it will be harder for us to raise funding through the sale of debt or equity securities unless we agree to register such securities with the Commission, which could cause us to expend additional resources in the future. Our status as a shell company could prevent us from raising additional funds, engaging service providers, and using our securities to pay for any acquisitions (although none are currently planned), which could cause the value of our securities, if any, to decline in value or become worthless. 5 Our independent auditors have issued reports questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. These reports may impair our ability to raise additional financing and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The reports of our independent auditors contained in our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 each include a paragraph that explains that we have no continuing operations that result in positive cash flow. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Reports of independent auditors questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern are generally viewed unfavorably by analysts and investors. These reports may make it difficult for us to raise additional financing, if sought, to make an acquisition, or to pursue a new opportunity if one is identified. We urge you to review this reports before making any investment decision. The board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence. With the completion of the Escrow period and the second distribution, based on the advice of management regarding potential business opportunities available to the Company, or the lack thereof, or the advice of the Company’s tax, accounting, legal or other experts, our board of directors may, at any time, determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence. Such action would result in a complete loss in the value of the common stock of the Company. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining a source of capital to meet our ongoing expenses, we may be forced to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence. Following completion of the escrow period and the second distribution we have very limited capital to fund management’s efforts to identify new business opportunities. While we continue to incur expenses, we do not currently generate any revenue nor do we expect to do so until such time as we can make an acquisition or exploit an opportunity that would allow us to generate revenue. There is no guarantee we will be able to do so. Similarly, there is no guarantee that if we were to identify an opportunity we would have sufficient funds then available to us to enable us to make an acquisition or exploit such an opportunity. Given our current situation, economic conditions could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or access the capital markets to fund an acquisition or exploit a new business opportunity, which would make it very difficult to pursue a new opportunity. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If the existence of the Company is terminated, our common stock will cease to exist or trade on any market. With the completion of the escrow period, the second distribution and the winding up of our operations in Kazakhstan, management and the board of directors may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence. In the event the Company’s existence is terminated, our common stock will cease to exist and there will be no market for our common stock. This would result in a complete loss in the value of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules, which may make it difficult for broker-dealers to complete customer transactions and adversely affect trading activity in our securities. Any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: 6 • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for the “penny stocks,” as we as a purchaser’s legal remedies: and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgement from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchase has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock is subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide the information requested by this Item. 