Item 1A. Risk Factors Our current liabilities exceed our current assets which, if not resolved, may result in the Company being unable to satisfy its obligations or make suitable arrangements with creditors as obligations become due. At March 31, 2009, our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $11,218,705. This has created liquidity problems for the Company. This increase in current liabilities over current assets arose from the steep decline in world oil prices, a drop in oil production and the export duty imposed by the government at a time when we were under contractual obligation to drill wells at four locations on our contract territory. In an effort to correct this situation we have ceased drilling new wells and we are working with creditors to establish payment schedules or otherwise reduce our current liabilities while continuing operations. We have no assurance that we will be successful in negotiating favorable terms with our creditors. 10 If we are unable to pay our debts or make suitable arrangement with creditors, this might be asserted to be an event of default under the Indenture governing our 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2012 (the “Notes”) and an event of default could result in the Notes becoming immediately due. We currently have insufficient funds to repay the Note principal. Given the current conditions in the credit and financial markets, we believe it would be difficult to obtain funding to retire the Notes if demand for payment were to be made prior to the scheduled maturity date. The current financial crisis and economic conditions have and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition that we cannot predict. The economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world have deteriorated during the past fiscal year. The global financial markets have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government and other governments. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity and, have reduced and in many cases, ceased to provide any new funding. Although we cannot predict the impacts on us of the deteriorating economic conditions, they could materially adversely affect our business in the following ways: • our ability to obtain credit and access the capital markets may continue to be restricted adversely affecting our financial position and our ability to continuing exploration and drilling activities on our territory; • the values we are able to realize in transactions we engage in to raise capital may be reduced, thus making these transactions more difficult to consummate and more dilutive to our shareholders; and • the demand for oil and natural gas may decline due to weak international economic conditions. Oil and gas prices are characteristically volatile, and if they remain low for a prolonged period, our revenues, profitability and cash flows will decline. A sustained period of low oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect our business operations, our asset values and our financial condition and ability to meet our financial commitments. 11 The global financial crises and economic downturn has resulted in significantly decline in oil and natural gas prices from their highs of 2008. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in oil and gas producing countries, including embargoes and continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, acts of terrorism or sabotage; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and gas prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the costs, proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, price declines or sustained low prices for oil and gas will: • negatively impact the value of our reserves because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically; • reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; and • limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. We may not have the funds, or the ability to raise the funds, necessary to repurchase the Notes when they become due. The Notes mature in July 2012. However, the indenture agreement governing the Notes provides that following a change in control of the Company, or on July 13, 2010, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase their Notes. We do not currently have funds to do so, nor do we expect to generate sufficient funds from operations by July 2010 to pay the repurchase price of any Notes if tendered. Our failure to repurchase the Notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. Such an event of default could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock because the event of default could lead to the principal and accrued but unpaid interest on the outstanding notes becoming immediately due and payable. 12 Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flows, but also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. This may result in downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Substantial decreases in oil and gas prices could render our future planned exploration and development projects uneconomical. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and may, therefore, require a write-down of such carrying value. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit agreements. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and future production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploration and exploitation activities, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. In order to increase our asset base, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas reserves and the construction of additional facilities. These maintenance capital expenditures may include capital expenditures associated with drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from our producing properties or additions to our inventory of unproved properties or our proved reserves to the extent such additions maintain our asset base. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in our reserves; • changes in oil and gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; 13 • our ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in license acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the success or our drilling efforts; • the level of oil and gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which our oil and gas is sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Historically, we have financed these expenditures primarily with cash raised through the sale of our equity and debt securities and revenue generated by operations. If our revenues or borrowing base decreases, which is expected, as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. Additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations may not be available to meet these requirements. Due to the current low prices for oil and gas and the restrictions in the capital markets due to the global financial crisis, we anticipate that we will not have any significant capital available during the upcoming fiscal year to make substantial capital expenditures. Drilling for and producing oil and gas is a costly and high-risk activity with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors, as well as the market price of oil and natural gas, can adversely affect the economics of a well. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services; • adverse weather conditions; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; 14 • unusual or unexpected or difficult geological formations; • natural disasters, such as fires; • blowouts, surface cratering and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. A productive well may become uneconomical in the event deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. We may drill wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil or gas in economic quantities. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in higher costs without any corresponding revenues. Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the size and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future values decline or costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our ability to finance operations; individual properties could cease being commercially viable; affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. 15 We will be unable to produce up to 68% of our proved reserves if we are not able to obtain a commercial production contract or extend our current exploration contract, which would likely require us to terminate our operations. Under our exploration contract on our properties we have the right to produce oil and gas only until January 2013, yet 68% of our proved reserves are scheduled to be produced after January 2013. We have the exclusive right to negotiate a commercial production contract as per the terms of our exploration contract. The MEMR does not make public its determinations on the granting of commercial production rights. Based on discussions with the MEMR, we have learned that the primary factors used by the MEMR in determining whether to grant commercial production rights are whether the contract holder has fulfilled its minimum work program commitments, proof of commercial discovery and submission of an approved development plan by a third-party petroleum institute in Kazakhstan to exploit the established commercial reserves. Typically, if commercial production rights are not granted it is because the contract holder has failed to make a commercial discovery within their contract territory and had decided to abandon the contract territory or the contract holder has insufficient funds to complete its minimum work program requirement and was unable to complete the necessary work to substantiate the presence of commercially producible reserves to the MEMR. Our efforts are focused toward meeting our minimum work program requirements and making and substantiating commercial discoveries in as many of the identified structures as possible to support our application for commercial production rights. If we are not granted commercial production rights prior to the expiration of our exploration contract, we may lose our right to produce the reserves on our current properties. If we are unable to produce those reserves, we will be unable to realize revenues and earnings and to fund operations and we would most likely be unable to continue as a going concern. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. The structures we have located on our territory are typically at a depth of 3,100 to 3,800 meters and some structures may be deeper in the Northwest Block. The rock is generally carbonates of limestone and dolomite, which can inhibit oil flow and well drainage and thereby results in higher risk drilling, reduced well drainage areas, lower production rates and higher than expected well decline rates. These factors in turn adversely effect the valuation of our reserve base. We attempt to address these challenges through careful selection of drilling sites and we are now in process of developing models of our oil fields that will guide our well locations, drilling activities and technology deployment. A “prospect” is a property which, based on available seismic and geological data, we believe shows potential oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation and interpretation. There is no way to accurately predict in advance of incurring drilling and completion costs whether a prospect will be 16 economically viable. Even with seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area, we cannot know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, will be present in commercial quantities. The analysis that we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields may not be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. When we drill unsuccessful wells, our drilling success rate declines and we may not achieve our targeted rate of return. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. In instances when we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented we may elect not to obtain insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive governmental regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with these regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • reports concerning operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. 17 Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws may also result in the suspension or termination of our licenses or operations and could subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that there is political and legal risk doing business in Kazakhstan, as the country has existed for less than two decades and is still in process of developing stable and predictable laws required to underpin a free market economy and foster private enterprise. We may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or even injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. Any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as on the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Because of our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating area would adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our assets are currently located in southwestern Kazakhstan. As a result, our business is disproportionately exposed to adverse developments affecting this region. These potential adverse developments could result from, among other things, changes in governmental regulation, capacity constraints with respect to storage facilities, transportation systems and pipelines, curtailment of production, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions in or affecting these regions. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in our business or the area in which we operate would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. 18 The unavailability or high price of transportation systems could adversely affect our ability to deliver our oil on terms that would allow us to operate profitably, or at all. Because of the location of our properties, the crude oil we produce must be transported by truck or by rail. In the future it will likely also be transported by pipelines. These railways and pipelines are operated by state-owned entities or other third-parties, and there can be no assurance that these transportation systems will always be functioning and available, or that the transportation costs will not become cost prohibitive. In addition, any increase in the cost of transportation or reduction in its availability to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to procure sufficient transportation capacity on economical terms, if at all. We depend on one customer for sales of crude oil. A reduction by this customer in the volumes of oil it purchases could result in a substantial decline in our revenues and net income. During the year ended March 31, 2009, we sold approximately 81% of our crude oil production to Titan Oil (formerly Euro-Asian Oil AG). Revenue from oil sold to Titan Oil made up 94% of our revenue during the year ended March 31, 2009. The loss of Titan Oil may have a material adverse effect on our operations in the short-term. Based on current demand for crude oil and the fact that alternate purchasers are readily available, we believe the loss of Titan Oil would not materially adversely effect our operations long-term. If you purchase shares of our stock, your investment will be subject to the same risks inherent in international operations, including, but not limited to, adverse governmental actions, political risks, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. While we have significant experience working in Kazakhstan, and feel we have good relationships with government agencies at many levels, we remain subject to all the risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, uncertain legal and political systems, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. Our primary oil and gas properties are located in Kazakhstan, which until 1990 was part of the Soviet Union. Kazakhstan retains many of the laws and customs of the former Soviet Union, but has and is continuing to develop its own legal, regulatory and financial systems. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of our agreements; in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. Prior to the expiration of our exploration rights, we plan to make application for commercial production rights to the extent we have established commercially producible reserves on our properties. We have the exclusive right to negotiate a commercial production contract for the ADE Block and Extended Territory, and the 19 government is required to conduct these negotiations under the “Law of Petroleum.” The terms of the commercial production contract will establish the royalty and other payments due to the government in connection with commercial production. At the time the commercial production contract is issued, we will be required to begin repaying the government its historical investment costs of exploration and development of the ADE Block and the Extended Territory. Our obligation associated with the ADE Block is approximately $6 million. Our obligation associated with the Extended Territory is approximately $5.3 million. If satisfactory terms for commercial production rights cannot be negotiated, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our ability to obtain additional financing or use our operating cash flow to fund operations may be adversely affected by our level of indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have negative consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital, repay debts or for other purposes may be impaired; • Our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to repay debt obligations; • We may be unable to compete with others who may not be as highly leveraged; and • Our debt may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The following factors could affect our stock price: • our operating performance and future prospects; • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as net income per share, net income and revenues; • actual or anticipated variations in our reserve estimates and quarterly operating results; • fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices; • speculation in the press or investment community; • sales of our common stock by large block stockholders; • short-selling of our common stock by investors; • the outcome of current litigation; • issuance of a significant number of shares to raise additional capital to fund our operations; • changes in applicable laws or regulations; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by our creditors; and • international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. 20 It is unlikely that we will be able to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. We cannot predict with certainty that our operations will result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate profitably and with sufficient positive cash flow so as to enable us to pay dividends to the holders of common stock. The percentage ownership evidenced by the common stock is subject to dilution. We are authorized to issue up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock and are not prohibited from issuing additional shares of such common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue any additional common stock, a holder of the common stock is not necessarily entitled to purchase any part of such issuance of stock. The holders of the common stock do not have statutory “preemptive rights” and therefore are not entitled to maintain a proportionate share of ownership by buying additional shares of any new issuance of common stock before others are given the opportunity to purchase the same. Accordingly, you must be willing to assume the risk that your percentage ownership, as a holder of the common stock, is subject to change as a result of the sale of any additional common stock, or other equity interests in the Company. Our common stock is an unsecured equity interest. Just like any equity interest, our common stock will not be secured by any of our assets. Therefore, in the event of our liquidation, the holders of our common stock will receive distributions only after all of our secured and unsecured creditors have been paid in full. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets after paying its secured and unsecured creditors to make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. Provisions in Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of Nevada law may delay, discourage, prevent or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, whether through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or otherwise. The provisions of Nevada law are designed to discourage coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids. These provisions are also designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 