Item 1A. Risk Factors Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the Company. You should carefully consider these risks and the risks identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report when evaluating our forward-looking statements and our Company. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect our business and the accuracy of the forward-looking statements and other information provided in this annual report on Form 10-K. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. We have limited continuing operations and assets as a result of the Sale. As a result of the Sale, we no longer have substantial operations or assets. Currently, we are working to wind up our operations in Kazakhstan and explore opportunities to exploit the expertise of our management staff. There is no guarantee we will we be able to identify any such opportunity or that we will have sufficient funds available to us to allow us to pursue any such opportunity. Our inability to do so would significantly limit our ability to return additional value to our stockholders and would likely result in a liquidation of the Company and termination of its existence, which would result in a complete loss in the value of the common stock of the Company. The board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence. With the completion of the Escrow period and the second distribution, based on the advice of management regarding potential business opportunities available to the Company, or the lack thereof, or the advice of the Company’s tax, accounting, legal or other experts, our board of directors may determine it to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence, which would result in a complete loss in the value of the common stock of the Company. 5 If we are unsuccessful in obtaining a source of capital to meet our operating needs, we may be forced to liquidate and terminate the Company’s existence. Following completion of the escrow period and the second distribution we have very limited capital to fund operations. We do not currently generate any revenue nor do we expect to do so until such time as we can make an acquisition or exploit an opportunity that will allow us to generate revenue. There is no guarantee we will be able to do so. Similarly, there is no guarantee that if we do identify an opportunity we will have sufficient funds available to us to enable us to make an acquisition or exploit such an opportunity. Given our current situation, economic conditions could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or access the capital markets to fund an acquisition or exploit a new business opportunity, which would make it very difficult to pursue an new opportunity. Our independent auditors have issued a report questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. This report may impair our ability to raise additional financing and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The report of our independent auditors contained in our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 includes a paragraph that explains that we have no continuing operations that result in positive cash flow. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Reports of independent auditors questioning a company’s ability to continue as a going concern are generally viewed unfavorably by analysts and investors. This report may make it difficult for us to raise additional financing, if necessary, to make an acquisition, or to pursue a new opportunity if one is identified. We urge you to review this report before making any investment decision. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If the existence of the Company is terminated, our common stock will cease to exist or trade on any market. With the completion of the escrow period and the second distribution, management and the board of directors may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to liquidate the Company and terminate its existence. In the event the Company’s existence is terminated, our common stock will cease to exist and there will be no market for our common stock. 6 Our common stock is subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules, which may make it difficult for broker-dealers to complete customer transactions and adversely affect trading activity in our securities. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for the “penny stocks,” as we as a purchaser’s legal remedies: and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgement from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchase has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock is subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide this the information requested by this Item. 