Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a challenging and highly competitive market. Listed below are some of the more critical or unique risk factors that we have identified as affecting or potentially affecting the Company and our business. You should consider these risks and the risks identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report when evaluating our forward-looking statements and our Company. The effect of any one risk factor or a combination of several risk factors could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and the accuracy of any forward-looking statement made in this annual report on Form 10-K. 11 We will have limited continuing operations following the Sale. We are a holding company and our primary operating asset is Emir Oil. Upon the closing of the Sale, we will no longer have substantial operations or assets. Following the closing, our existence will continue to (i) address existing Company liabilities, (ii) respond to indemnification claims made by Palaeontol in connection with the Purchase Agreement, and (iii) pay out the second distribution, if any, to our stockholders. Because of the limited continuing operations of the Company and limited capital, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, which will adversely impact our stockholders. If the Sale is not consummated, we will have insufficient capital to run our business. If the Sale is not consummated, we will continue to face significant operating and financial challenges, which include the insufficiency of capital to run our business. Our inability to raise the funding or to otherwise finance our capital needs will adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations, and could prevent us from continuing our business. Given current equity and credit markets and our own financial condition, we have been unable to raise additional capital and we do not expect this to change. However, if we attempt to raise capital in the future through public and private equity offerings, debt financing or collaboration, or strategic alliances, such financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and/or our stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional capital through the sale of our common stock, stockholders’ ownership interests in the Company may be significantly diluted and the terms of the financing may adversely affect stockholders’ rights. If the Sale is not consummated, we will be unable to pay off the Senior Notes. If we do not complete the Sale, we will lack sufficient funds to retire the restructured Senior Notes when they become due. In this event, we would likely be required to consider liquidation alternatives, including the liquidation of our business under bankruptcy protection. Certain conditions to completing the Sale are beyond our control. There are certain conditions to closing that must be fulfilled before we can complete the Sale of Emir Oil that are beyond our control, such as timing and receipt of commercial production contracts on the Kariman, Dolinnoe and Aksaz fields, or receipt by Palaeontol of a valid work permit from the Kazakhstan Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. If these conditions to closing are not met or waived, we will be unable to complete the Sale and will be subject to all the risks discussed herein in the event the Sale is not consummated. We will incur significant expenses in connection with the Sale and could be required to make significant payments if the Purchase Agreement is terminated under certain conditions. We could be obligated to pay the Buyer a $17 million termination fee and/or to reimburse the Buyer up to $3.5 million for expenses if the Purchase Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. In addition, we expect to pay legal and accounting fees whether the Sale closes or not. Any significant expenses or payment obligations incurred by us in connection with the Sale could adversely affect our financial condition and cash position. 12 We will not realize the benefits of the reserves being sold through Emir Oil. We have expended considerable resources conducting exploratory drilling and testing to establish the existence of commercially producible reserves in four of the ten identified structures within the Contract Area, as required under our existing exploration contract. If the Sale is consummated, we will not realize the financial benefits from any commercially producible reserves existing in any of the six remaining structures. In addition, Palaeontol will realize all benefits attributable to our previous drilling and testing of the four established fields. The amount of the second distribution is an estimate and the second distribution, if any, may be much lower than anticipated. The amount of the anticipated second distribution to our stockholders is an estimate that remains subject to various adjustments, including, but not limited to, (i) fees and expenses incurred in connection with the consummation of the Sale and transactions in furtherance thereof, (ii) payment of our other debts, obligations and liabilities, (iii) payments to Messrs. Tolmakov and Cherdabayev of their deferred distribution amounts and payment to Mr. Cherdabayev of his extraordinary event payment, (iv) the repayment of the Senior Notes, and (v) the availability of funds to be released from the escrow, which is subject to certain indemnification claims for a minimum twelve-month period. Because of the uncertainty of these adjustments, stockholders may not receive a second distribution, or the second distribution may be considerably lower than estimated. If the Sale is not consummated, our ability to obtain additional financing or use our operating cash flow to fund operations may be adversely affected by our level of indebtedness. If the Sale is not consummated, our level of indebtedness could have negative consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital, repay debts or for other purposes may be impaired; • our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to repay debt obligations; • we may be unable to compete with others who may not be as highly leveraged; and • our debt may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. The financial crisis and economic conditions have and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in prices of securities, diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital, bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government and other governments. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished. As a result of the concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of existing debtors specifically, the cost of obtaining money from credit markets has increased. Many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity and have either reduced or, in many cases, ceased to provide any new funding. 13 If we are unable to complete the Sale, current economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business in, among other, the following ways: • our ability to obtain credit and access the capital markets may continue to be restricted adversely affecting our financial position and our ability to continuing exploration and drilling activities on our territory; • the values we are able to realize in transactions we engage in to raise capital may be reduced, thus making these transactions more difficult to consummate and more dilutive to our shareholders; and • the demand for oil and natural gas may decline due to weak international economic conditions. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. If we do not consummate the Sale, and continue our oil and gas operations, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas reserves and the construction of additional facilities. These capital expenditures may include capital expenditures associated with drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from our producing properties or additions to our inventory of unproved properties or our proved reserves to the extent such additions maintain our asset base. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in our reserves; • changes in oil and gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in license acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the success or our drilling efforts; • the level of oil and gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which our oil and gas is sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. 14 Historically, we have financed these expenditures primarily with cash raised through the sale of our equity and debt securities and revenue generated by operations. If our revenues or borrowing base decreases, which is expected, as a result of higher than anticipated decline curves, lower production, lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. Additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations may not be available to meet these requirements. We anticipate that if we do not consummate the Sale we will not have enough capital available during the upcoming fiscal year to make substantial capital expenditures. Oil and gas prices are characteristically volatile, and if they remain low for a prolonged period, our revenues, profitability and cash flows will decline. A sustained period of low oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect our business operations, our asset values and our financial condition and ability to meet our financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on a variety of factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in oil and gas producing countries, including embargoes and continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, acts of terrorism or sabotage; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and gas prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the costs, proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, price declines or sustained low prices for oil and gas will: • negatively impact the value of our reserves because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically; • reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; and • limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. 15 Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flows, but also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. This may result in downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Substantial decreases in oil and gas prices could render future exploration and development projects uneconomical. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and may, therefore, require a write-down of such carrying value. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit agreements. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and future production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploration and exploitation activities, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Drilling for and producing oil and gas is a costly and high-risk activity with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors, as well as the market price of oil and natural gas, can adversely affect the economics of a well. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services; • adverse weather conditions; • equipment failures or accidents; • pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • unusual or unexpected or difficult geological formations; • natural disasters, such as fires; • blowouts, surface cratering and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. 16 A productive well may become uneconomical in the event deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other substances. We may drill wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil or gas in economic quantities. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in higher costs without any corresponding revenues. Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the size and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with Commission requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future values decline or costs increase, it could have a negative impact on our ability to finance operations; individual properties could cease being commercially viable; affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. 17 If we do not complete the Sale, we will be unable to produce up to 83% of our proved reserves if we are not able to obtain a commercial production contract or extend our current exploration contract, which would likely require us to terminate our operations. Under our exploration contract on our properties we have the rights to produce oil and gas only until January 2013, yet 83% of our proved reserves are scheduled to be produced after January 2013. We have the exclusive right to negotiate a commercial production contract as per the terms of our exploration contract. If we do not complete the Sale and are not granted commercial production rights prior to the expiration of our exploration contract, we may lose our right to produce the reserves on our current properties. If we are unable to produce those reserves, we will be unable to realize revenues and earnings and to fund operations and we would most likely be unable to continue as a going concern. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. In instances when we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented we may elect not to obtain insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive governmental regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with these regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • reports concerning operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. 18 Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws may also result in the suspension or termination of our licenses or operations and could subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that there is political and legal risk doing business in Kazakhstan, as the country is still in the process of developing stable and predictable laws required to underpin a free market economy and foster private enterprise. We may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or even injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. Any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as on the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Because of our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating area would adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our assets are located in southwestern Kazakhstan. As a result, our business is disproportionately exposed to adverse developments affecting this region. These potential adverse developments could result from, among other things, changes in governmental regulation, capacity constraints with respect to storage facilities, transportation systems and pipelines, curtailment of production, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions in or affecting these regions. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in our business or the area in which we operate would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. 19 The unavailability or high price of transportation systems could adversely affect our ability to deliver our oil on terms that would allow us to operate profitably, or at all. Because of the location of our properties, the crude oil we produce must be transported by truck or by rail. In the future it will likely also be transported by pipelines. These railways and pipelines are operated by state-owned entities or other third-parties, and there can be no assurance that these transportation systems will always be functioning and available, or that the transportation costs will not become cost prohibitive. In addition, any increase in the cost of transportation or reduction in its availability to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to procure sufficient transportation capacity on economical terms, if at all. We depend on one customer for sales of crude oil. A reduction by this customer in the volumes of oil it purchases could result in a substantial decline in our revenues and net income. During the year ended March 31, 2011, we sold approximately 99% of our crude oil production to Titan Oil. Revenue from oil sold to Titan Oil made up 97% of our revenue during the year ended March 31, 2011. The loss of Titan Oil may have a material adverse effect on our operations in the short-term. Based on current demand for crude oil and the fact that alternate purchasers are readily available, we believe the loss of Titan Oil would not materially adversely affect our operations long-term. If you purchase shares of our stock, your investment will be subject to the same risks inherent in international operations, including, but not limited to, adverse governmental actions, political risks, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. While we have significant experience working in Kazakhstan, and feel we have good relationships with government agencies at many levels, we remain subject to all the risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, uncertain legal and political systems, and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. Our primary oil and gas properties are located in Kazakhstan, which until 1990 was part of the Soviet Union. Kazakhstan retains many of the laws and customs of the former Soviet Union, but has and is continuing to develop its own legal, regulatory and financial systems. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of our agreements; in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. Prior to the expiration of our exploration rights, we must make application for commercial production rights to the extent we have established commercially producible reserves on our properties. We have the exclusive right to negotiate a commercial production contract for the ADE Block, the Southeast Block and the Northwest Block and the government is required to conduct these negotiations under the “Law of Petroleum” in Kazakhstan. The terms of the commercial production contract will establish the Mineral Extraction Tax, Rent Export Tax and other payments due to the government in connection with commercial production. At the time the commercial production contract is issued, we will be required to begin repaying the government its historical investment costs of exploration and development of the ADE Block, the Southeast Block and the Northwest Block, as well as a Commercial Discovery Bonus. The historical investment costs associated with the ADE Block, the Southeast Block and the Northwest Block are approximately $6 million, $5.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively. We currently do not know the amount of any required Commercial Discovery Bonus, but anticipate it could be as high as $10 million. If satisfactory terms for commercial production rights cannot be negotiated, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 20 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock price will decline. Since the announcement of the pending Sale, the price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. If the Sale closes, because of our limited continuing operations thereafter, an active and liquid market for our common stock will not be sustained, which will depress the trading price of our common stock. A significant decline in our common stock price may result in substantial losses for individual stockholders if they trade prior to closing of the Sale transaction, and may lead to securities litigation against the Company, which could result in substantial costs to the Company. The NYSE Amex will likely determine that we are operating as a “public shell” and delist us. While the NYSE Amex has no bright-line test for determining whether a particular company is a “public shell,” the exchange has expressed the opinion that the securities of companies operating as “public shells” may be subject to market abuses or other violative conduct that is detrimental to the interests of the investing public. The Commission has defined a public shell as a company with no or nominal operations and either no or nominal assets, assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents, or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. The NYSE Amex may perform a facts and circumstances analysis to determine whether they believe that we are a “public shell.” Listed companies determined to be public shells by the NYSE Amex may be subject to delisting proceedings or additional and more stringent continued listing criteria. Listed companies determined to be public shells by the Commission will be subject to more stringent regulation and disclosure requirements and shares of common stock of such companies will be more difficult to sell. If our common stock is subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: 21 • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for the “penny stocks,” as we as a purchaser’s legal remedies: and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgement from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchase has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock is subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a Smaller Reporting Company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, we are electing scaled disclosure reporting obligations and therefore are not required to provide the information requested by this Item. 22 