Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. However, the risks described are not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. You also should refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Our Profitability Will Suffer If We Are Not Able to Maintain Our Pricing and Utilization Rates and Control Our Costs. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of the rates we are able to recover for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals and simultaneously control our costs, we will not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The rates we are able to recover for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; • competition; • introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; • pricing policies of our competitors; and • general economic conditions that affect the demand for our services. Our utilization rates are also affected by a number of factors, including: • seasonal trends, primarily as a result of our hiring cycle and holiday vacations; • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements; and • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in the appropriate areas of our workforce. Our profitability is also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. Current and future cost reduction initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins if a challenging economic environment existed for several quarters. 12 Table of Contents Our Inability to Retain Client Serving Professionals Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on our Business. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled professionals at all levels. Qualified client-serving professionals are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. The loss for any reason of a number of the Company’s client-serving professionals or the inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Revenue Could Be Adversely Affected by the Loss of a Significant Client or the Failure to Collect a Large Account Receivable. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively limited number of major clients. From year to year, revenue from one or more individual clients may exceed 10% of our revenue. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we had no clients that individually accounted for over 10% of our net revenue. If we lose any major clients or any of our clients cancel or significantly reduce a large project’s scope, we would lose a significant amount of revenue. In addition, if we fail to collect a large account receivable or group of receivables, we could be subject to significant financial exposure. A Significant or Prolonged Economic Downturn Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the customer segments, industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profit margin. Future economic conditions could cause some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services. We have implemented and will continue to implement cost-savings initiatives to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins if the economic environment should weaken for a prolonged period. Our Quarterly Operating Results Will Vary From Quarter to Quarter, Which May Increase the Volatility of Our Stock Price. We have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly when measured on a percentage basis. These fluctuations could result in increased volatility in the market price of our Common Stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to significantly vary include: • the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; • the timing of projects and their termination; • the timing of revenue or income; • the timing of hiring, compensation and benefits expenses; • our ability to transition employees quickly from completed projects to new engagements; • the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • our ability to manage costs, including personnel costs and support services costs; and • global economic and political conditions. The timing of revenue is difficult to forecast because our sales cycle is relatively long and our services are affected by the financial condition and management decisions of our clients, including the ability to cancel 13 Table of Contents our services on short notice, while a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed at the beginning of any period. Competition in Our Industry is Intense and Could Harm Our Business. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business. The business and technology consulting services market, which includes a large number of participants, is subject to rapid technological changes and is highly competitive. We compete with a number of companies that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, and greater revenue than ours. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry include: • results orientation; • technical and industry expertise; • perceived value; • effectiveness of strategic business models; • service delivery approach; • diagnostic capabilities; and • scope of services. We believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of competitive factors outside of our control, including the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate senior consultants, the price at which others offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors in the future. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry in our industry. We do not own any patented technology that inhibits competitors from entering the market or providing services similar to ours. As a result, new and unknown market entrants could pose a threat to our business. The Absence of Long-Term Contracts With Our Clients Reduces the Predictability of Our Revenue. Our clients are generally able to reduce or cancel their use of our professional services without penalty and, in some circumstances, with little notice. As a result, we believe that the number of clients or the number and size of our existing projects are not reliable indicators or measures of future revenue. We will need to continuously acquire new clients and/or new projects with existing clients to meet our expenses. When a client defers, modifies or cancels a project, there is no assurance that we will be able to rapidly redeploy our professionals to other projects in order to minimize the underutilization of employees and the resulting adverse impact on operating results. We may not be able to replace cancelled or reduced contracts with new business, or rapidly reduce our expenses to offset cancelled or reduced contracts. As a result, our revenue and profits could decline. Failure to Meet Client Expectations Could Result in Losses and Negative Publicity. A failure or inability by us to meet a client’s expectations could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract new business and result in delayed or lost revenue. Our client engagements involve the creation and implementation of business strategies and other processes that can be critical to our clients’ businesses. We may be sued or unable to collect accounts receivable if a client is not satisfied with our service. Our client contracts may not protect us from liability for damages in the event that we are sued. In addition, our liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts. The successful assertion of any large claim or group of claims against us or our failure to collect a large account receivable could result in a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents The Price for Our Common Stock Has Been Volatile and Unpredictable. The price of our Common Stock has historically been volatile. Our Common Stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market since February 1997. From January 1, 1999 through March 31, 2009, our high and low sales price has ranged from a high of $107.25 to a low of $1.38. From March 31, 2002 through March 31, 2009, our high and low sales price has ranged from a high of $17.25 to a low of $1.38. The market price of our Common Stock may experience fluctuations in the future for a variety of reasons. These include: • negative news about other publicly traded companies in our industry; • general economic or stock market conditions unrelated to our operating performance; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • announcements of new contracts or service offerings by us or our competitors; • financial performance of the Company; and • other events or factors. Fluctuations in the market prices of technology related companies or those of our clients may continue to occur and disproportionately impact our stock price. In addition, volatility or a significant decline in the price of our Common Stock could diminish or impair our ability to use equity-based compensation, which is an important component of our compensation system. Inability to Keep Pace with Rapidly Changing Technology May Impair Our Ability to Remain Competitive. Our failure to develop business and technology consulting services that keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving industry standards, information technology and client preferences would likely result in decreased demand for our services. Our challenges in this area include the need to: • continue to develop our strategic and technical experience; • develop new services that meet changing client needs; and • effectively understand leading technologies. We may not be able to meet these challenges on a timely or successful basis. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or If We Infringe Upon the Intellectual Property Rights of Others Our Business May Be Harmed. Failure to secure or maintain protection of our intellectual property could adversely affect our ability to service our clients and generate revenue. We rely on a combination of non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, require that our clients enter into such agreements, and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. Ownership of intellectual property developed during our client engagements is typically assigned to the client upon payment for our services. We generally retain the right to use any intellectual property that is previously developed by us or developed during a client engagement that is of general applicability and is not specific to the client’s project. Issues relating to the ownership of and rights to use intellectual property developed during the course of a client engagement can be complicated. Clients may demand assignment of ownership or restrictions on our use of the work product. In addition, disputes could arise if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may have to pay economic damages to the third parties and also indemnify our clients in these disputes and we could also suffer a loss of reputation which could adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents We Must Continue to Build Recognition and Client Acceptance of Our Name. Diamond has invested significant efforts in building recognition and client acceptance of its name which was changed on August 1, 2006. We believe that market acceptance of the name and “brand” Diamond is an important aspect of our efforts to retain and attract clients. Promoting and maintaining name recognition depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and the ability of Diamond to provide high quality, reliable and cost-effective services. These efforts will require significant expenses, which will affect our results of operations. Client dissatisfaction with Company performance could diminish the value of our brand. Our Global Operations Pose Complex Management, Business, Financial and Regulatory Risks, Which We May Not Adequately Address. We conduct business in multiple countries around the world. During fiscal year 2009, 89% of our revenue was attributable to activities in North America and the remaining 11% was attributable to activities in Europe and Asia, which primarily include the U.K. and India. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks which we may not adequately address, including: • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; • multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws; • coordinating geographically separated organizations; • restrictions on movement of cash; • the absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws to protect our intellectual property rights; • political instability; • currency fluctuations and translation risk; • longer payment cycles; • restrictions on our ability to operate in certain geographic markets and industries for a period of time pursuant to the non-compete provisions of the agreement to sell a portion of our international operations; • cultural differences; and • trade barriers. The Failure to Integrate or Negotiate Successfully Any Future Acquisitions Could Harm Our Business and Operating Results. If we acquire businesses in the future and are unable to successfully integrate these businesses, it could harm our business and operating results. In order to remain competitive or to expand our business, we may find it necessary or desirable to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We may be unable to identify appropriate acquisition candidates. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and operations. Further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating an acquired business may strain our resources and require significant management time. In addition, we may revalue or write-down the value of goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions which would harm our operating results. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future Which May Not Be Available. We may not be able to raise capital or obtain debt financing in the future to meet our liquidity needs and finance our operations and future growth. We maintain a revolving line of credit, cash balances and cash generated from operations. Any future decreases in our operating income, cash flow, or stockholders’ equity may impair our future ability to raise additional funds to finance operations. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or acquire adequate liquidity to support our operations. 16 Table of Contents Future Sales of Our Common Stock in the Public Market Could Cause the Price of Our Stock to Decline. In the future, our stockholders could sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market which could cause our market price to decline. A substantial number of outstanding shares of Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock issuable upon exercise or vest of equity awards will become eligible for future sale in the public market at various times. It has been the Company’s practice to issue equity awards to its employees on a broad basis. As a result, our employees and former employees own a significant portion of the Company’s Common Stock, particularly on a fully-diluted basis. As these equity awards vest, these individuals may choose to sell their Common Stock. An increase in the number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices and could impair our future ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Our Charter Documents and Delaware Law May Discourage an Acquisition of Diamond. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock. Our charter and by-laws also provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our Chairman of the Board of Directors, by our Secretary at the written request of the Chairman or by our Board of Directors, with the result that any third-party takeover not supported by the Board of Directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. In addition, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Certain of Our Contracts Pose Unique Risks. We work for various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies primarily in our “public sector” industry practice. These clients have legal remedies at their disposal that our commercial clients may not have in the event of a dispute with us, such as extensive audit rights and the ability to impose penalties, sanctions and debarment. In addition, in both the public sector practice and in our commercial practice, we often enter into fixed-fee contracts. If we are not successful in properly estimating our costs and timing for completing engagements, unexpected costs or unanticipated delays, whatever the cause, could cause our contracts to be less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 