ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results from operations and ability to make distributions on our equity and debt service on our indebtedness may be affected by the risk factors set forth below. All investors should consider the following risk factors before deciding to purchase securities of the Company. The Company refers to itself as “we” or “our” in the following risk factors. Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the Northeastern suburban office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to you. Our business may be affected by the continuing volatility in the financial and credit markets, the general global economic conditions, continuing high unemployment, and other market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or the real estate industry as a whole. Our business also may be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the Northeast, particularly in New Jersey and New York. Because our portfolio currently consists primarily of office and office/flex buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in the Northeast, if economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected by the following, among other potential conditions: · significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries may occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; · our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; · reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; · the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investments or other factors; · reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital; and · one or more lenders under our line of credit could refuse or be unable to fund their financing commitment to us and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. These conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. Our performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. General: Our business and our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors depend on the ability of our properties to generate funds in excess of operating expenses (including scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditures). Events or conditions that are beyond our control may adversely affect our operations and the value of our Properties. Such events or conditions could include: · changes in the general economic climate and conditions; · changes in local conditions, such as an oversupply of office space, a reduction in demand for office space, or reductions in office market rental rates; · an oversupply or reduced demand for multi-family apartments caused by a decline in household formation, decline in employment or otherwise; · decreased attractiveness of our properties to tenants and residents; · competition from other office and office/flex and multi-family properties; · development by competitors of competing multi-family communities; · unwillingness of tenants to pay rent increases; · rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other housing laws and regulations that could prevent us from raising multi-family rents to offset increases in operating costs; · our inability to provide adequate maintenance; · increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes, due to inflation and other factors which may not necessarily be offset by increased rents; · changes in laws and regulations (including tax, environmental, zoning and building codes, landlord/tenant and other housing laws and regulations) and agency or court interpretations of such laws and regulations and the related costs of compliance; · changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing; · the inability of a significant number of tenants or residents to pay rent; · our inability to rent office or multi-family rental space on favorable terms; and · civil unrest, earthquakes, acts of terrorism and other natural disasters or acts of God that may result in uninsured losses. 10 We may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue: We earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. Our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. This means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. Our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. If our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs and we may incur losses. Such losses may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Financially distressed tenants may be unable to pay rent: If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord and protecting our investments. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy and a potential court judgment rejecting and terminating such tenant’s lease (which would subject all future unpaid rent to a statutory cap) could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors as we may be unable to replace the defaulting tenant with a new tenant at a comparable rental rate without incurring significant expenses or a reduction in rental income. Renewing leases or re-letting space could be costly: If a tenant does not renew its lease upon expiration or terminates its lease early, we may not be able to re-lease the space on favorable terms or at all. If a tenant does renew its lease or we re-lease the space, the terms of the renewal or new lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to the tenant, may be less favorable than the current lease terms, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Adverse developments concerning some of our major tenants and industry concentrations could have a negative impact on our revenue: Recent developments in the general economy and the global credit markets have had a significant adverse effect on many companies in numerous industries. We have tenants concentrated in various industries that may be experiencing adverse effects of current economic conditions. For instance, 13.6 percent of our revenue is derived from tenants in the Securities, Commodity Contracts and Other Financial industry, 10.1 percent from tenants in the Insurance Carriers and Related Activities industry and 7.5 percent from tenants in the Manufacturing industry. Our business could be adversely affected if any of these industries suffered a downturn and/or these tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely manner or at all. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate or our insurance providers may default on their obligations to pay claims: We currently carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, fire and flood. We cannot guarantee that the limits of our current policies will be sufficient in the event of a catastrophe to our properties. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, while our current insurance policies insure us against loss from terrorist acts and toxic mold, in the future, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against these types of losses, or, if offered, these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. If any or all of the foregoing should occur, we may not have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property or properties. Nevertheless, we might remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property or properties. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Such events could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. If one or more of our insurance providers were to fail to pay a claim as a result of insolvency, bankruptcy or otherwise, the nonpayment of such claims could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more of our insurance providers were to become subject to insolvency, bankruptcy or other proceedings and our insurance policies with the provider were terminated or canceled as a result of those proceedings, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to find alternative coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In such case, we could experience a lapse in any or adequate insurance coverage with respect to one or more properties and be exposed to potential losses relating to any claims that may arise during such period of lapsed or inadequate coverage. 11 Illiquidity of real estate limits our ability to act quickly: Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Such illiquidity may limit our ability to react quickly in response to changes in economic and other conditions. If we want to sell an investment, we might not be able to dispose of that investment in the time period we desire, and the sales price of that investment might not recoup or exceed the amount of our investment. The prohibition in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and related regulations on a real estate investment trust holding property for sale also may restrict our ability to sell property. In addition, we acquired a significant number of our properties from individuals to whom the Operating Partnership issued Units as part of the purchase price. In connection with the acquisition of these properties, in order to preserve such individual’s income tax deferral, we contractually agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer the properties for a specified period of time, except in a manner which does not result in recognition of any built-in-gain (which may result in an income tax liability) or which reimburses the appropriate individuals for the income tax consequences of the recognition of such built-in-gains. As of December 31, 2014, seven of our properties, with an aggregate net book value of approximately $125.3 million, were subject to these restrictions which expire periodically through 2016. For those properties where such restrictions have lapsed, we are generally required to use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent any sale, transfer or other disposition of the subject properties from resulting in the recognition of built-in gain to the appropriate individuals. 110 of our properties, with an aggregate net book value of approximately $1.3 billion, have lapsed restrictions and are subject to these conditions. The above limitations on our ability to sell our investments could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. New acquisitions, including acquisitions of multi-family rental real estate, may fail to perform as expected and will subject us to additional new risks: We intend to and may acquire new properties, primarily in the multi-family rental sector, assuming that we are able to obtain capital on favorable terms. Such newly acquired properties may not perform as expected and may subject us to unknown liability with respect to liabilities relating to such properties for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination or claims by tenants, residents, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. In addition, future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position may be underestimated. The search for and process of acquiring such properties will also require a substantial amount of management’s time and attention. As our portfolio shifts from primarily commercial office properties to increasingly more multi-family rental properties we will face additional and new risks such as: · shorter-term leases of one-year on average for multi-family rental communities, which allow residents to leave after the term of the lease without penalty; · increased competition from other housing sources such as other multi-family rental communities, condominiums and single-family houses that are available for rent as well as for sale; · dependency on the convenience and attractiveness of the communities or neighborhoods in which our multi-family rental properties are located and the quality of local schools and other amenities; · dependency on the financial condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac which provide a major source of financing to the multi-family rental sector; and · compliance with housing and other new regulations. Americans with Disabilities Act compliance could be costly: Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could involve removal of structural barriers from certain disabled persons’ entrances. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such accesses. Although we believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with present requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or related laws or regulations could result in the United States government imposing fines or private litigants being awarded damages against us. Such costs may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Environmental problems are possible and may be costly: Various federal, state and local laws and regulations subject property owners or operators to liability for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on or in the property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator was responsible for or even knew of the presence of such substances. The presence of or failure to properly remediate hazardous or toxic substances (such as toxic mold, lead paint and asbestos) may adversely affect our ability to rent, sell or borrow against contaminated property and may impose liability upon us for personal injury to persons exposed to such substances. Various laws and regulations also impose liability on persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at another location for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for such disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. Certain other environmental laws and regulations impose liability on owners or operators of property for injuries relating to the release of asbestos-containing or other materials into the air, water or otherwise into the environment. As owners and operators of property and as potential arrangers for hazardous substance disposal, we may be liable under such laws and regulations for removal or remediation costs, governmental penalties, property damage, personal injuries and related expenses. Payment of such costs and expenses could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. 12 We face risks associated with property acquisitions: We have acquired in the past, and our long-term strategy is to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties and portfolios of properties in New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania and in the Northeast generally, and particularly residential properties, including large real estate portfolios that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. We may be competing for investment opportunities with entities that have greater financial resources. Several office building developers and real estate companies may compete with us in seeking properties for acquisition, land for development and prospective tenants. Such competition may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors by: · reducing the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us; · increasing the bargaining power of property owners; · interfering with our ability to attract and retain tenants; · increasing vacancies which lowers market rental rates and limits our ability to negotiate rental rates; and/or · adversely affecting our ability to minimize expenses of operation. Our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: · adequate financing to complete acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms or at all as a result of the continuing volatility in the financial and credit markets; · even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, we may be unable to complete that acquisition and risk the loss of certain non-refundable deposits and incurring certain other acquisition-related costs; · the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be greater than our estimates; · any acquisition agreement will likely contain conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction or other conditions that are not within our control, which may not be satisfied; and · we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and acquired properties may fail to perform as expected; which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Development of real estate, including the development of multi-family rental real estate could be costly: As part of our operating strategy, we may acquire land for development or construct on owned land, under certain conditions. Included among the risks of the real estate development business are the following, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors: · financing for development projects may not be available on favorable terms; · long-term financing may not be available upon completion of construction; · failure to complete construction and lease-up on schedule or within budget may increase debt service expense and construction and other costs; and · failure to rent the development at all or at rent levels originally contemplated. Property ownership through joint ventures could subject us to the contrary business objectives of our co-venturers: We, from time to time, invest in joint ventures or partnerships in which we do not hold a controlling interest in the assets underlying the entities in which we invest, including joint ventures in which (i) we own a direct interest in an entity which controls such assets, or (ii) we own a direct interest in an entity which owns indirect interests, through one or more intermediaries, of such assets. These investments involve risks that do not exist with properties in which we own a controlling interest with respect to the underlying assets, including the possibility that (i) our co-venturers or partners may, at any time, become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due, (ii) we may be responsible to our co-venturers or partners for indemnifiable losses, (iii) we may become liable with respect to guarantees of payment or performance by the joint ventures, (iv) we may become subject to buy-sell arrangements which could cause us to sell our interests or acquire our co-venturer’s or partner’s interests in a joint venture, or (v) our co-venturers or partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. Because we lack a controlling interest, our co-venturers or partners may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. While we seek protective rights against such contrary actions, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in procuring any such protective rights, or if procured, that the rights will be sufficient to fully protect us against contrary actions. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in joint ventures or partnerships. If the objectives of our co-venturers or partners are inconsistent with ours, it may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. 13 Our performance is subject to risks associated with repositioning a significant portion of the Company’s portfolio from office to multi-family rental properties. Repositioning the Company’s office portfolio may result in impairment charges or less than expected returns on office properties: There can be no assurance that the Company, as it seeks to reposition a portion of its portfolio from office to the multi-family rental sector will be able to sell office properties and purchase multi-family rental properties at prices that in the aggregate are profitable for the Company or are efficient use of its capital or that would not result in a reduction of the Company’s cash flow. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, it also may be difficult for the Company to promptly sell its office properties that are held or may be designated for sale promptly or on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, as the Company identifies non-core office properties that may be held for sale or that it intends to hold for a shorter period of time than previously, it may determine that the carrying value of a property is not recoverable over the anticipated holding period of the property. As a result, the Company may incur impairment charges for certain of these properties to reduce their carrying values to the estimated fair market values. See Note 3: Real Estate Transactions – Impairments on Properties Held and Used. Moreover, as the Company seeks to reposition a portion of its portfolio from office to the multi-family rental sector, the Company may be subject to a Federal income tax on gain from sales of properties due to limitations in the Code and related regulations on a real estate investment trust’s ability to sell properties. The Company intends to structure its property dispositions in a tax-efficient manner and avoid the prohibition in the Code against a real estate investment trust holding properties for sale. There is no guaranty, however, that such dispositions can be achieved without the imposition of federal income tax on any gain recognized. If costs of developing multi-family rental properties increase, we do not expect to achieve as high a return on our multi-family development properties as compared with our historical or current returns in the commercial sector: Our current strategy involves disposing of non-core office and office/flex properties and redeploying the proceeds from those dispositions to acquire multi-family rental properties, including development projects. Although there has been widespread instability in capitalization rates in all real estate sectors since the credit market disruptions and economic slowdown in 2008, generally capitalization rates are higher in the office sector but more stable (and lower) in the multi-family residential sector. The Company believes that the opportunity to invest in multi-family development properties at higher returns on cost will position the Company to potentially produce higher levels of net operating income than if the Company purchased a stabilized multi-family property at a lower anticipated return. However, if costs of developing a multi-family residential property increase, there could be less arbitrage between the costs to develop versus the price to purchase stabilized multi-family residential properties. Consequently, the Company does not expect as high a return on its multi-family residential development properties as with our historical or current returns in the commercial sector. Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could adversely affect multi-family rental occupancy, rental rates, operating expenses, and the overall market value of our assets, including joint ventures. Local conditions that may adversely affect conditions in multi-family residential markets include the following: · plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors that adversely affect the local economy; · an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment units; · a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth; · the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases; · rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and · economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as increases in property taxes, utilities, compensation of on-site associates and routine maintenance. Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability: We must develop, construct and operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with applicable laws could expose us to liability. Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord/tenant laws, or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the development, use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes. 14 Failure to succeed in new markets, or with new brands and community formats, or in activities other than the development, ownership and operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences: We are actively engaged in development and acquisition activity in new submarkets within our core, Northeast markets where we have owned and operated our historical portfolio of office properties. Our historical experience with properties in our core, Northeast markets in developing, owning and operating properties does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in the new multi-family submarkets. We will be exposed to a variety of risks in the multi-family submarkets, including: · an inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market conditions; · an inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; · an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment; · our estimate of the costs of repositioning or developing an acquired property may prove inaccurate; and · lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. Our real estate construction management activities are subject to risks particular to third-party construction projects. As we may perform fixed price construction services for third parties, we are subject to a variety of risks unique to these activities. If construction costs of a project exceed original estimates, such costs may have to be absorbed by us, thereby making the project less profitable than originally estimated, or possibly not profitable at all. In addition, a construction project may be delayed due to government or regulatory approvals, supply shortages, or other events and circumstances beyond our control, or the time required to complete a construction project may be greater than originally anticipated. If any such excess costs or project delays were to be material, such events may adversely effect our cash flow and liquidity and thereby impact our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Debt financing could adversely affect our economic performance. Scheduled debt payments and refinancing could adversely affect our financial condition: We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing. These risks, including the following, may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors: · our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; · payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to pay operating expenses; · we may not be able to refinance indebtedness on our properties at maturity; and · if refinanced, the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the original terms of the related indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $2.1 billion comprised of $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes and approximately $821 million of mortgages, loans payable and other obligations. We may have to refinance the principal due on our current or future indebtedness at maturity, and we may not be able to do so. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, events or conditions that may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors include the following: · we may need to dispose of one or more of our properties upon disadvantageous terms or adjust our capital expenditures in general or with respect to our strategy of acquiring multi-family residential properties and development opportunities in particular; · prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase interest rates and, therefore, our interest expense; · we may be subject to an event of default pursuant to covenants for our indebtedness; · if we mortgage property to secure payment of indebtedness and are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon such property or appoint a receiver to receive an assignment of our rents and leases; and · foreclosures upon mortgaged property could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds and, therefore, hinder our ability to meet the real estate investment trust distribution requirements of the Code. 15 We are obligated to comply with financial covenants in our indebtedness that could restrict our range of operating activities: The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants, including limitations on our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases outside of stipulated guidelines or to materially modify existing leases. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains customary requirements, including restrictions and other limitations on our ability to incur debt, debt to assets ratios, secured debt to total assets ratios, interest coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. The indentures under which our senior unsecured debt have been issued contain financial and operating covenants including coverage ratios and limitations on our ability to incur secured and unsecured debt. These covenants limit our flexibility in conducting our operations and create a risk of default on our indebtedness if we cannot continue to satisfy them. Some of our debt instruments are cross-collateralized and contain cross default provisions with other debt instruments. Due to this cross-collateralization, a failure or default with respect to certain debt instruments or properties could have an adverse impact on us or our properties that are subject to the cross-collateralization under the applicable debt instrument. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the agreements and, in certain circumstances, our lenders may be entitled to accelerate our debt obligations. Defaults under our debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Rising interest rates may adversely affect our cash flow: As of December 31, 2014, outstanding borrowings of approximately $160 million of our mortgage indebtedness bear interest at variable rates. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that bears interest at variable rates. Variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase. Higher debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors and/or cause us to default under certain debt covenants. Our degree of leverage could adversely affect our cash flow: We fund acquisition opportunities and development partially through short-term borrowings (including our revolving credit facility), as well as from proceeds from property sales and undistributed cash. We expect to refinance projects purchased with short-term debt either with long-term indebtedness or equity financing depending upon the economic conditions at the time of refinancing. Our Board of Directors has a general policy of limiting the ratio of our indebtedness to total undepreciated assets (total debt as a percentage of total undepreciated assets) to 50 percent or less, although there is no limit in the Operating Partnership’s or our organizational documents on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, we have entered into certain financial agreements which contain financial and operating covenants that limit our ability under certain circumstances to incur additional secured and unsecured indebtedness. The Board of Directors could alter or eliminate its current policy on borrowing at any time at its discretion. If this policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors and/or could cause an increased risk of default on our obligations. We are dependent on external sources of capital for future growth: To qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code, we must distribute to our shareholders each year at least 90 percent of our net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including for acquisitions and developments, from income from operations. Therefore, we will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our shareholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition: The credit ratings assigned to our senior unsecured notes by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (the “NRSROs”) are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the NRSROs in their rating analyses of us. These ratings and similar ratings of us and any debt or preferred securities we may issue are subject to ongoing evaluation by the NRSROs, and we cannot assure you that any such ratings will not be changed by the NRSROs if, in their judgment, circumstances warrant. Our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our current credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Competition for skilled personnel could increase our labor costs. We compete with various other companies in attracting and retaining qualified and skilled personnel and are currently conducting a search for a new chief executive officer to succeed our current chief executive officer who will step down in May 2015. We depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company. Competitive pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates we charge our tenants. If there is an increase in these costs or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our business and operating results could be harmed. 16 We are dependent on our key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We are dependent upon key personnel for strategic business direction and real estate experience, including our chief executive officer, a successor chief executive officer expected to be selected in 2015, and our chief financial officer and our chief legal officer. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect our operations. We do not have key man life insurance for our key personnel. In addition, as the Company seeks to reposition a portion of its portfolio from office to the multi-family rental sector, the Company may become increasingly dependent on non-executive personnel with residential development and leasing expertise to effectively execute the Company’s long-term strategy. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent changes in control. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following: Classified Board of Directors: Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each. At our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, stockholders approved amendments to our charter and bylaws to declassify our Board of Directors over a three year period from 2015 through 2017 such that each director whose term expires at the annual meeting of stockholders in 2015 through 2017 will be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders following their election, instead of the third-succeeding annual meeting, and until their successors are elected and qualify. During this transition period, our Board of Directors will remain classified with respect to the directors whose three year terms have not yet expired during such period, and Maryland law permits the Board of Directors to re-classify the Board of Directors at any time. The classification and staggered terms of office of our directors make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. At least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to affect a change in a majority of the board of directors. Removal of Directors: Under our charter, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors. Neither the Maryland General Corporation Law nor our charter define the term “cause.” As a result, removal for “cause” is subject to Maryland common law and to judicial interpretation and review in the context of the facts and circumstances of any particular situation. Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Terms of Office: We have, in our bylaws, elected to be subject to certain provisions of Maryland law which vest in the Board of Directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, to fill vacancies on the board. These provisions of Maryland law, which are applicable even if other provisions of Maryland law or the charter or bylaws provide to the contrary, also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of stockholders as would otherwise be the case, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. We have, in our corporate governance principles, adopted a mandatory retirement age of 80 years old for directors. Stockholder Requested Special Meetings: Our bylaws provide that our stockholders have the right to call a special meeting only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders at such meeting. Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals: Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Exclusive Authority of the Board to Amend the Bylaws: Our bylaws provide that our board of directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws. Thus, our stockholders may not effect any changes to our bylaws. Preferred Stock: Under our charter, our Board of Directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control. Duties of Directors with Respect to Unsolicited Takeovers: Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholders rights plan, (c) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (d) act or fail to act solely because of the effect the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. 17 Ownership Limit: In order to preserve our status as a real estate investment trust under the Code, our charter generally prohibits any single stockholder, or any group of affiliated stockholders, from beneficially owning more than 9.8 percent of our outstanding capital stock unless our Board of Directors waives or modifies this ownership limit. Maryland Business Combination Act: The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers, issuances or reclassifications of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the Maryland corporation. Our board of directors has exempted from this statute business combinations between the Company and certain affiliated individuals and entities. However, unless our board adopts other exemptions, the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations with other persons. Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act: Maryland law provides that holders of “control shares” of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” shall have no voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. “Control shares” means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority or a majority or more of all voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights of control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder’s meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder’s meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any acquisitions of shares by certain affiliated individuals and entities, any directors, officers or employees of the Company and any person approved by the board of directors prior to the acquisition by such person of control shares. Any control shares acquired in a control share acquisition which are not exempt under the foregoing provisions of our bylaws will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Consequences of failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust could adversely affect our financial condition. Failure to maintain ownership limits could cause us to lose our qualification as a real estate investment trust: In order for us to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust under the Code, not more than 50 percent in value of our outstanding stock may be actually and/or constructively owned by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities). We have limited the ownership of our outstanding shares of our common stock by any single stockholder to 9.8 percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors could waive this restriction if they were satisfied, based upon the advice of tax counsel or otherwise, that such action would be in our best interests and would not affect our qualification as a real estate investment trust under the Code. Common stock acquired or transferred in breach of the limitation may be redeemed by us for the lesser of the price paid and the average closing price for the 10 trading days immediately preceding redemption or sold at the direction of us. We may elect to redeem such shares of common stock for Units, which are nontransferable except in very limited circumstances. Any transfer of shares of common stock which, as a result of such transfer, causes us to be in violation of any ownership limit, will be deemed void. Although we currently intend to continue to operate in a manner which will enable us to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke the election for us to qualify as a real estate investment trust. Under our organizational documents, our Board of Directors can make such revocation without the consent of our stockholders. In addition, the consent of the holders of at least 85 percent of the Operating Partnership’s partnership units is required: (i) to merge (or permit the merger of) us with another unrelated person, pursuant to a transaction in which the Operating Partnership is not the surviving entity; (ii) to dissolve, liquidate or wind up the Operating Partnership; or (iii) to convey or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the Operating Partnership’s assets. As of February 13, 2015, as general partner, we own approximately 88.9 percent of the Operating Partnership’s outstanding common partnership units. 18 Tax liabilities as a consequence of failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust: We have elected to be treated and have operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes since our taxable year ended December 31, 1994. Although we believe we will continue to operate in such manner, we cannot guarantee that we will do so. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the satisfaction of various requirements (some on an annual and some on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex tax provisions of the Code. Because few judicial or administrative interpretations of such provisions exist and qualification determinations are fact sensitive, we cannot assure you that we will qualify as a real estate investment trust for any taxable year. If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, we will be subject to the following: · we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders; · we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates, including any alternative minimum tax, if applicable; and · unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will not be permitted to qualify as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. A loss of our status as a real estate investment trust could have an adverse effect on us. Failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust also would eliminate the requirement that we pay dividends to our stockholders. Other tax liabilities: Even if we qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code, we are subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and, in some circumstances, certain other state and local taxes. From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. A shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which we operate may lead to an increase in the frequency and amount of such increase. These actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal, state and local income tax for income received in connection with certain non-customary services performed for tenants and/or third parties. Risk of changes in the tax law applicable to real estate investment trusts: Since the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any such legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our and the Operating Partnership’s tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us, the Operating Partnership, and/or our investors. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our tenants and business partners, including personally identifiable information of our tenants and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. We face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change. We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. For example, many of our properties are located along the East coast, particularly those in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal or related costs at our properties. Proposed legislation to address climate change could increase utility and other costs of operating our properties which, if not offset by rising rental income, would reduce our net income. There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 19 Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: · the extent of your interest in us; · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; · our financial performance; and · general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 