ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility. As of December 1, 2008 we had approximately $670.3 million of indebtedness, consisting of approximately $448.5 million of indebtedness under our First Lien Credit Facility (as defined below), approximately $121.8 million of indebtedness under our Second Lien Credit Facility (as defined below) and $100.0 million of indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below). Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate or other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • it may cause our trade creditors to change their terms for payment on goods and services provided to us, thereby negatively impacting our ability to receive products and services on acceptable terms; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and Page 15 • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, may be limited in our ability to respond to competitive pressures and may have reduced flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to pay interest on and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent upon economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If, in the future, we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our existing indebtedness or that funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements will be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our business could continue to be adversely affected by increased competition, including new business initiatives by our competitors. We compete with: • local, regional and national video retail stores, including stores operated by Blockbuster, Inc., the largest video retailer in the United States; • Internet-based, mail-delivery home video rental subscription services, such as Netflix, Blockbuster Online, and Blockbuster Total Access, a subscription service incorporating both mail delivery and video retail stores; • competitors who operate DVD-dispensing kiosk machines, such as Redbox Kiosk; • mass merchants; • specialty retailers, including GameStop and Suncoast; • competitors who operate Internet-based rental services that provide online delivery, such as Apple’s iTunes Store; • supermarkets, pharmacies, convenience stores, bookstores and other retailers that rent or sell similar products as a component, rather than the focus, of their overall business; • mail order operations and online stores, including Amazon.com; and • noncommercial sources, such as libraries. Pricing strategies for movies and video games, including Blockbuster’s “No Late Fees” and “Total Access” programs, are major competitive factors in the video retail industry, and we have fewer financial and marketing resources, lower market share and less name recognition than Blockbuster. In recent months, we experienced significant declines in revenue as a result of competitive pricing between Blockbuster and Netflix over their subscription services and greater customer acceptance of Blockbuster’s Total Access program. Other types of entertainment, such as theaters, television, personal video recorders, Internet-related activities, sporting events such as the Olympics, and family entertainment centers, also compete with our movie and video game businesses. Some of our competitors, such as online stores, mass merchants and warehouse clubs, may operate at margins lower than we do and may be able to distribute and sell movies at lower price points than we do. These competitors may even be willing to sell movies below cost due to their broad inventory mix. Page 16 If any of our competitors were to substantially increase their presence in the markets we serve, our revenues and profitability could decline, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be harmed and the continued success of our business could be challenged. We may be unable to successfully implement all post-emergence aspects of the Plan. The financial projections and certain other business information contained in the Plan and the disclosure statement issued in connection with the Plan rely on the successful implementation of our business plan after emergence from bankruptcy. The success of our business plan depends in part on economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to meet the projected targets under the business plan, we may not achieve the anticipated results set forth in our financial projections. Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our First Lien Credit Facility, our Second Lien Credit Facility, and our Revolving Credit Facility require us to maintain certain financial ratios and covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in the Company’s best interest. These include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create liens; • make further negative pledges; • pay dividends on or repurchase stock; • restrict dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries; • make or own certain investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in new lines of business; • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into sales and lease-back transactions. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of these credit facilities may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions apply. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources, for more information on our restrictive and financial covenants. Limitations in our credit facilities on making capital expenditures and incurring secured debt may prevent us from pursuing new business initiatives, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our First Lien Credit Facility, our Second Lien Credit Facility, and our Revolving Credit Facility have limitations on the amount of money that we may spend on capital expenditures. We believe Page 17 that successful execution of our business plan will require us to dedicate a significant portion of our capital expenditures to the continuing integration of Hollywood and Movie Gallery and required maintenance capital. Accordingly, we could be unable to make capital expenditures to open or acquire a significant number of new stores or pursue new business initiatives, including investing in an online rental program or other alternative delivery vehicles. Our inability to pursue new business initiatives may place us at a disadvantage to our competitors who are not subject to these restrictions. If our competitors successfully pursue new business initiatives, these restrictions may limit our ability to react effectively, and our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business could be negatively impacted by changes to the traditional exclusive movie windows. Following a movie’s theatrical release, most studios distribute movies in a specific sequence in order to maximize studio revenues on each title they release. The order of distribution of movies is typically: (1) movie theaters; (2) home video retailers; (3) pay-per-view and video-on-demand; and (4) all other sources, including cable and syndicated television. The length of the movie rental window varies, but is typically 45 days prior to the pay-per-view release date, and during this window, home video retailers have historically enjoyed exclusive rights to market movies. However, the movie studios are not contractually obligated to continue to observe these window periods. As a result, we cannot be certain that movie studios will maintain this exclusive window in the future. Indeed, certain movie studios have experimented with modifying or eliminating the exclusive window provided to the home video industry. Most recently, on April 30, 2008, Warner Brothers, in contrast to the other studios, announced that it will begin aggressively moving toward releasing essentially all of its titles to video-on-demand at the same time they are released to DVD in 2008. Certain other studios presently offer concurrent theatrical and home video releases on a limited basis for certain lower box office titles in selected genres, which could lead to further compression of the exclusive window period that home video retailers generally enjoy. We could be adversely affected as a result of this move by Warner Brothers or if additional movie studios decided to shorten or eliminate the exclusive window period or if the home rental retailers were no longer first to receive movies following the theatrical release. Consumers would no longer need to wait until after the home video distribution window to view movies through other distribution channels. Changes to the distribution scheme could cause our profitability to decline, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Our business may be negatively impacted by new and existing technologies. Advances in technologies that benefit our competitors may adversely affect our business. For example, advances in cable and direct broadcast satellite technologies, including high definition digital television transmissions offered through those systems and the increasing ease of downloading video content on the Internet, may adversely affect public demand for video store rentals. Expanded content available through these media, including movies and video games, specialty programming and sporting events, could result in fewer movies and video games being rented and sold at video stores. In addition, higher quality resolution and sound offered through these services and technologies could require us to increase capital expenditures, for example, to upgrade our DVD inventories to provide movies in high definition. Cable and direct broadcast satellite technologies offer movie channels, for which subscribers pay a subscription fee to access movies selected by the provider at times selected by the provider, as well as pay-per-view services, for which subscribers pay a discrete fee to view a particular movie selected by the subscriber. Historically, pay-per-view services have offered a limited number of Page 18 channels and movies and have offered movies only at scheduled intervals. Over the past five years, however, advances in digital compression and other developing technologies have enabled cable and satellite companies, and may enable Internet service providers and others, to transmit a significantly greater number of movies to homes at more frequently scheduled intervals. Certain cable companies, Internet service providers and others are also testing or offering video-on-demand services. Video-on-demand provides a subscriber with the ability to view any movie included in a catalog of titles maintained by the provider at any time. If pay-per-view, video-on-demand or any other alternative movie delivery systems enable consumers to conveniently view and control the movies they want to see and when they want to see them, such alternative movie delivery systems could achieve a competitive advantage over the traditional home video rental industry. This risk would be exacerbated if these competitors receive the movies from the studios at the same time as video stores, as in the case of Warner Brothers’ decision to release almost all of its movies to video-on-demand the same day it releases them to DVD. It could be further exacerbated by the increasing popularity and availability of personal digital recording systems (such as TiVo), which allow viewers to record, pause, rewind, and fast forward live broadcasts and create their own personal library of movies. In addition, we may compete in the future with other distribution or entertainment technologies that are either in their developmental or testing phases now or that may be developed in the future. For example, some retailers have begun to rent or sell DVDs through kiosks or vending machines. Additionally, the technology exists to offer disposable DVDs, which would allow a consumer to view a DVD an unlimited number of times during a specified period of time, at the end of which the DVD becomes unplayable. We cannot predict the impact that future technologies will have on our business. If any of the technologies described above creates a competitive advantage for our competitors, our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are out of our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fuel prices, recession and fears of recession, war and fear of war, inclement weather, consumer debt, conditions in the housing market, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, health epidemics and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. These factors may also affect our various brands and products differently. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, which would harm our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if the trend of consumers purchasing movies rather than renting movies continues. Historically, studios offered movies for sale at prices too high to generate significant consumer demand to purchase these movies. A limited number of titles were released at a lower price point when consumers were believed more likely to have a desire to purchase a certain title. The penetration of DVDs into the market at a significantly lower price point has resulted in a substantial increase in the quantity of newly released movies available for purchase by the consumer. These movies are purchased to rent by home video specialty retailers and to sell by both home video specialty retailers and mass merchants, among others. We believe that these changes in pricing have led to an increasing number of consumers who purchase, rather than rent, movies. Further changes in studio pricing or sustained or further depressed pricing by competitors could accelerate Page 19 this trend and could result in increased competition. If we are not able to derive most of our revenues from our higher-margin rental business, our profit levels would be adversely impacted and we may not be able to compete with our competitors for the consumer’s sell-through dollar, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Our business could be adversely impacted if movie studios negatively altered revenue sharing agreements. Prior to studio revenue sharing agreements and the advent of DVD, we typically paid between $35 and $65 per videocassette for major theatrical releases not priced as sell-through titles. Under studio revenue sharing agreements, we are able to pay a minimal up-front cost per unit and thereafter pay a percentage of each revenue dollar earned for a specified period of time to the studios. We currently utilize these types of agreements for a significant number of movie releases. These agreements have enabled us to increase significantly the number of copies carried for each title to better meet consumer demand. After a specified period of time, we offer the copies for sale to our customers as “previously viewed movies,” at lower prices than new copies of the movie. We could be adversely affected if these agreements are changed to give the movie studios a greater percentage of each revenue dollar or if such agreements are discontinued. Additionally, studio revenue sharing agreements permit the studios, in the ordinary course of business, to audit our records to determine whether we have complied with the terms of these agreements. We may be required to pay additional amounts as a result of these audits. Further, some of our revenue sharing agreements may be terminated on short notice. If we are unable to purchase movies through revenue sharing agreements, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by conditions impacting the motion picture industry. The availability of new movies produced by the movie studios is vital to our business. The quality and quantity of new movies available in our stores could be adversely affected by factors that negatively impact the motion picture industry, such as financial difficulties, regulatory requirements and work disruptions involving key personnel, such as writers or actors. For example, on November 5, 2007, two labor unions that represent film, television and radio writers working in the United States decided to go on strike. Over 12,000 writers were affected by the strike. Labor strikes such as this cost the entertainment industry millions of dollars (for example, the last such strike in 1988, which lasted 22 weeks, cost the American entertainment industry an estimated $500 million). These costs to the entertainment industry are also absorbed by the home video retail industry and negatively impact our business. Additionally, we depend on the movie studios to produce new movies that appeal to consumer tastes. A decrease in the quality and quantity of new movies available in our stores could result in reduced consumer demand, and we cannot assure you that future releases of movies and video games will appeal to consumers. Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected by any future reduction in the quality or quantity of available movies. Our business could be adversely affected if video game software and hardware manufacturers do not introduce new products in a timely manner. The video game industry is characterized by the significant impact on consumer spending that accompanies the introduction of new video game software and hardware platforms. Retail spending in the video game industry typically grows rapidly with the introduction of new platforms and then declines considerably prior to the release of new platforms. In 2005, Microsoft introduced the Xbox Page 20 360 platform and, in late 2006, Sony and Nintendo released their newest platforms. Consumer demand for video games available in our stores could be adversely affected if manufacturers fail to introduce new video games for these new gaming platforms in a timely manner or are unable to make new video games and gaming systems available in sufficient quantities. A decline in consumer demand for video games available in our stores could negatively affect our revenues and, as a result, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. An increased piracy of products we offer may adversely affect our results of operations. The development of the Internet and related technologies increases the threat of piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated content. We cannot assure you that movie studios and others with rights in movies and video games and related product will take steps to enforce their rights against Internet piracy or that they will be successful in preventing the distribution of pirated content. Technological developments and advances of products (such as at-home DVD burners) also may increase piracy of movies and video games, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Many members of our senior management and substantially all the members of our Board of Directors have been associated with our Company for a relatively short period of time. Many members of our senior management have been associated with our Company for a relatively short period of time. For example, Clarence J. Gabriel, Jr. was appointed as our President and Chief Executive Officer in May 2008, Sherif J. Mityas was appointed as our Chief Operating Officer and President of Retail Operations in June 2008 and Lucinda M. Baier was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer in July 2008. Additionally, in September 2008, Craig Miller was appointed Chief Information Officer of Movie Gallery and Caroline Guest was appointed Executive Vice President of Human Resources. In October 2008, Pamela Schneider was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and in November 2008 Clifford Torng was appointed Chief Marketing Officer. Furthermore, on the Effective Date, substantially all of the members of our Board of Directors were replaced with individuals who were not previously members of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, these members of our management and Board of Directors will have to devote significant time and effort to familiarizing themselves with the details of our business, and there can be no assurance that these members of senior management and our Board of Directors will be able to function effectively as a team. To the extent that they are unable to do either of these items, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we are highly dependent on the efforts and performance of our executive management team, including the new members of senior management. If we were to lose any key members of our team, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. See Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant for a detailed description of our current executive management team. Our financial results could be adversely impacted if we are unable to effectively manage our merchandise inventory. Our merchandise carries risks associated with inventory management, obsolescence and theft. While most of our retail movie product is returnable to the movie studios, our investment in inventory increases our exposure to excess inventories in the event anticipated sales fail to materialize. In addition, customer returns of video games, which are prone to obsolescence because of the nature of the video game industry, are subject to negotiation with video game vendors. The prevalence of multiple gaming platforms may make it more difficult to predict accurately consumer demand with respect to video games. In addition, the nature of and market for our products, particularly movies and video games, makes us particularly prone to risk of theft and loss. Page 21 Our operating results could suffer if we are unable to: • maintain the appropriate levels of inventory, including an appropriate mix between Blu-ray high definition and standard definition DVD movies, to support customer demand without building excess inventories; • obtain or maintain favorable terms from the movie studios and video game vendors with respect to payment and product returns; • control shrinkage resulting from theft, loss or obsolescence; and • avoid significant inventory excesses that could force us to sell products at a discount or loss. If we are unable to manage effectively our merchandise inventory such that we increase our exposure to excess inventories in the event anticipated sales fail to materialize, we may be required to liquidate inventory for amounts that are less than the carrying value on that inventory and our profitability could otherwise decline, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our gross margins may be adversely affected if we fail to meet or exceed the expected average price for previously viewed movie titles or video games. We earn revenues from the sale of previously viewed movies and video games. We need to sell previously viewed movies and video games at an expected price to achieve certain gross margin targets. Our gross margins may be adversely affected if the average sales price for previously viewed movies and video games is not at or above our target price. A consumer’s desire to own a particular movie or video game and the number of previously viewed movies or video games available for sale to the public by our competitors are both factors that affect our ability to sell previously viewed movies and video games at our target price. Additionally, sales of previously viewed movies and video games also compete with newly released movies and video games priced for sell-through. As a result, there are no assurances that we will be able to sell previously viewed movies and video games at or above the expected price. If selling prices for previously viewed movies and video games decline, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our rental inventory and, as a result, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our long-term performance. Historically, our quarterly operating results have varied, and we anticipate that they will continue to vary in the future. Factors that may cause quarterly operating results to vary, many of which we cannot control, include, without limitation: (a) decreased consumer demand for our products; (b) decreased prices at which we can rent or sell our products; (c) the timing, cost and availability of newly released movies and video games; (d) increased competition from providers of similar products, other forms of entertainment, and special events, such as the Olympics or ongoing major news events of significant public interest, including the economy and the U.S. elections; and (e) acts of God or public authorities, war, civil unrest, hurricanes, fire, floods, earthquakes, acts of terrorism and other matters beyond our control. Page 22 Further, our revenues and operating results fluctuate on a seasonal basis, because seasonality and weather patterns can either significantly increase business (inclement conditions that prohibit outdoor activities) or significantly decrease business (mild temperatures and dry conditions that reduce the consumer’s desire to relax indoors). The home video retail industry generally experiences relative revenue declines in April and May, due in part to the change in Daylight Savings Time and improved weather, and in September and October, due in part to the start of the traditional school year and the introduction of new television programs. We also may experience weaker revenues as a result of the broadcast of the Olympic Games or other highly anticipated sporting events or significant news events, including those related to the economy and the U.S. elections. The industry typically experiences peak revenues during the months of November, December, January and February due to the holidays in these months, inclement weather conditions and, frequently, the home video release of the preceding summer’s hit titles. The video game sales business is traditionally strongest in November and December, as title releases are often clustered around the holiday shopping season. In light of these seasonal variations in our revenues and operating results and the impact of the strength of the home video title slate on our revenues and operating results, comparisons of our revenues and operating results for any period with those of the immediately preceding period or the same period of the preceding fiscal year may be of limited relevance in evaluating historical financial performance and predicting future financial performance. Our working capital, cash and short-term borrowings also fluctuate during the year as a result of numerous factors. If revenues during these periods do not meet expectations, we may not generate sufficient revenue to offset increased costs incurred in preparation for peak seasons and our operating results may suffer. Finally, the operational risks described elsewhere in these risk factors may be exacerbated if the events described therein were to occur during a peak season. We may have higher purchasing costs related to the release of films on the Blu-ray format. As the movie studios release more films on the new Blu-ray high definition DVD format, we will need to purchase greater volumes of such films. Films released on the Blu-ray format may be more expensive to acquire than in standard DVD format, and these new high definition format DVDs appear to have higher damage rates than regular DVDs. The rate of customer acceptance and adoption of the new format is uncertain, and we may be unable to charge higher prices for either the rental or sale of movies on the Blu-ray format. Thus, our expenditures on DVDs could increase and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be required to recognize additional asset impairment and other asset-related charges. We have incurred in the past, and continue to incur, impairment charges with respect to our indefinite-lived intangible assets such as goodwill and the Hollywood trademark, our definite-lived intangible assets such as customer lists, and our definite-lived tangible assets such as property, furnishings, and equipment, and rental inventory. In accordance with the applicable accounting literature, we test for impairment when impairment indicators arise, which include, without limitation: • significant adverse changes in the business climate; • current period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with long-lived assets; Page 23 • a current expectation that more-likely-than-not (e.g., a likelihood that is more than 50%) long-lived assets will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of their previously estimated useful life; and • a significant drop in our stock price. Due to the impairment indicators noted in Note 6. Impairment of Other Long-Lived Assets, Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, and Goodwill, to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we performed impairment testing on our indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets and our definite-lived tangible assets. As a result, we recorded charges of $115.6 million, $158.4 million, and $64.6 million related to the impairment of goodwill, the impairment of other intangibles, and the impairment of property, furnishings, and equipment, respectively, for the fifty-three weeks ended January 6, 2008. Our impairment calculations are based upon our best estimates at the time of preparation of the recoverability of the assets’ values using primarily discounted cash flow methods. Future industry trends and our future performance relative to our competition may require us to revise our cash flow estimates and other assumptions when determining fair value and thus compel us to recognize additional long-lived asset and rental inventory impairment charges. For the fifty-three weeks ended January 6, 2008, we recognized $2.8 million of impairment charges related to our rental inventory. In addition to our property, furnishings, and equipment impairment charges and our customer list impairment charge, we could incur material impairment charges to our rental inventory in the future. If we were to continue to close a significant number of our stores, we may need to liquidate the on-hand rental inventory for amounts that are less than the carrying value of the rental inventory product. These potential future asset impairments could have a materially adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Furthermore, in the fifty-three weeks ended January 6, 2008, we recognized a charge of $65.7 million associated with changing our estimates of the salvage values of our rental inventory. We may be required to recognize additional charges in the future with respect to these estimates of salvage values for reasons including, without limitation, the following: • the overabundance of DVD titles available for sale in the marketplace; • the maturation of the standard definition DVD life cycle culminating in the anticipated consumer acceptance of the Blu-ray DVD high definition format; and • the aggressive pricing and promotion tactics implemented by our competition. Our business could be adversely affected by the failure of our management information systems to perform as expected, or by additional loss of key management information systems personnel. Due to our significant operating losses for the fifty-three weeks ended January 6, 2008 and our present liquidity position, we have reduced planned capital and maintenance expenditures for, among other things, projects related to our management information systems infrastructure, which include, without limitation: • replacing old and outdated hardware technology in our stores and in our two store support centers; • either replacing, or updating and integrating, our POS systems; • additional integration of systems between our two store support centers; and Page 24 • upgrading our present versions of certain operating and applications systems platforms, including our Oracle database environment, without which we may incur additional costs for ongoing maintenance and support. We depend on our management information systems for the efficient operation of our business. Our merchandise operations use our inventory utilization system to track rental activity by format for each individual movie and video game title so that we may determine appropriate buying, distribution and disposition of our inventory. We also rely on a scalable client-server system to maintain and update information relating to revenue, rental and sales activity, movie and video game rental patterns, store membership demographics, and individual customer history. These systems, together with our POS and in-store systems, allow us to control our cash flow, keep our in-store inventories at optimum levels, move our inventory more efficiently and track and record our performance. We rely on our management information systems personnel to operate and maintain these systems. However we have experienced attrition in key positions within this area. If our management information systems failed to perform as expected, or if we were to continue to lose personnel in this area, our ability to manage our inventory and monitor our performance could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Losses caused by natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other severe weather, could cause us to suffer material financial losses. Our stores are located in many areas subject to natural disasters and severe weather. The incidence and severity of natural disasters such as fire or earthquakes, or severe weather such as hurricanes or tornadoes, are inherently unpredictable and could cause interruptions in our business and significant damage to our stores or other properties. Interruptions in our business or damage to our properties could reduce our revenues and increase our costs. The extent of losses from natural disasters and severe weather will be a function of both the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposure. Although we maintain insurance coverage, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover our losses or that we will be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost in the future. If our losses from business interruption or property damage exceed the amounts for which we are insured, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by exposure to laws in a number of jurisdictions. In operating more than 3,000 stores located throughout all 50 states and Canada, we are exposed to federal, state and local legal issues in a significant number of jurisdictions. Any changes in local, state and/or federal laws, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and operations. Terrorism, war or other acts of violence could negatively impact our business. Terrorist attacks, as well as the on-going events in Iraq or other acts of violence and civil unrest in the nation and throughout the world, could influence the financial markets and the economy. Consumers’ television viewing habits may be altered as a result of these events such that the demand for home video entertainment is reduced. These factors could have a negative impact on our results of operations or our stock price. Page 25 We are effectively controlled by a major stockholder, whose interests may conflict with yours. Sopris and its affiliates control the voting of 86.3% of our common stock and, therefore, have the power to control or substantially affect the outcome of matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. These include the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and possible mergers, corporate control contests and significant corporate transactions. Through their control of our board of directors, Sopris and its affiliates also have the ability to appoint or replace our senior management, issue additional shares of our common stock or repurchase common stock, declare dividends or take other actions. Our controlling stockholder may make decisions regarding our company and business that are opposed to your interests or with which you disagree. To the extent the interests of our public stockholders are harmed by the actions of our controlling stockholder, the price of our common stock may be harmed. Our New Common Stock is not listed on any securities exchange and, as a result, our New Common Stock may be less liquid that it would otherwise be if it was listed on a securities exchange. Our New Common Stock is not listed on any securities exchange. Instead, our New Common Stock is currently traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC, and our price is published by the National Quotations Bureau LLP in a paper publication known as the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol MVGR.PK. The Pink Sheets is a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for OTC securities in real-time. Our trading status on the Pink Sheets is dependent on market makers’ willingness to provide the service of accepting trades from buyers and sellers of our New Common Stock. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on a securities exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than exchange-listed securities. Accordingly, our New Common Stock may be less liquid than it would otherwise be and may be difficult to sell. Also, the values of these stocks may be more volatile than exchange-listed securities. In addition, unlike issuers with securities traded on a stock exchange, issuers of securities traded on the Pink Sheets do not have to meet any specific quantitative and qualitative listing and maintenance standards. We are eligible to terminate the registration of our Common Stock under the Exchange Act, which could cause our Common Stock to be de-listed from the Over the Counter (“OTC”) Bulletin Board. As a public company with fewer than 300 shareholders, we file our periodic reports with the SEC and register our shares of New Common Stock under Exchange Act of 1934 on a voluntary basis. Accordingly we are eligible to de-register our Common Stock under the Exchange Act, and intend to do so as soon as reasonably practicable. In the event we take such action, it could inhibit the ability of our common stock holders to trade the shares in the open market, thereby severely limiting the liquidity of such shares. Furthermore, if we were to de-register, we would no longer be required to file current, annual and quarterly reports with the SEC and would no longer be subject to various substantive requirements of Exchange Act regulations. De-registration would reduce the amount of information available to investors about us and may cause our New Common Stock to be de-listed from the OTC Bulletin Board. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted as a result of the two material weaknesses in our internal controls. We are required, pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 6, 2008, and Page 26 this assessment identified two material weaknesses in our internal controls relating to lease accounting matters and accrued liabilities. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. These material weaknesses could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact market prices for our securities. The continuing integration of Hollywood and Movie Gallery may strain our resources and prove to be difficult and may subject us to liabilities. On April 27, 2005, we completed our acquisition of Hollywood, which was substantially larger than any of our previous acquisitions. The expansion of our business and operations resulting from the acquisition of Hollywood, including the differences in the cultures, strategies and infrastructures of our operating segments, has strained and may continue to strain our administrative, operational and financial resources. The continuing integration of Movie Gallery and Hollywood has and could continue to require substantial time, effort, attention and dedication of management resources and may distract management in unpredictable ways from their other responsibilities. The integration process has and could continue to create a number of potential challenges and adverse consequences, including the possible unexpected loss of key employees or suppliers, a possible loss of sales, an increase in operating and other costs, possible difficulties in integrating the information management systems, including POS and inventory control systems previously maintained by Hollywood and Movie Gallery, and the need to modify operating accounting controls and procedures to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These types of challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 