Risk Factors Relating to the ADSs and the Shares Preemptive rights may be unavailable to holders of our ADSs According to the Ley de Sociedades Anónimas No. 18.046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (collectively, the “Chilean Companies Law”), whenever we issue new shares for cash, we are required to grant preemptive rights to holders of our shares (including shares represented by ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to such rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is available. Under the procedure established by the Central Bank of Chile, the foreign investment agreement of a Chilean company with an existing ADR program will become subject to an amendment (which will also be deemed to incorporate all laws and regulations applicable to international offerings in effect as of the date of the amendment) that will extend the benefits of such contract to new shares issued pursuant to a preemptive rights offering to existing ADS owners and to other persons residing and domiciled outside of Chile that exercise preemptive rights, upon request to the Central Bank of Chile. We intend to evaluate at the time of any rights offering the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement as well as the indirect benefits to us of enabling United States holders of ADSs to exercise preemptive rights and any other factors that we consider appropriate at the time, and then make a decision as to whether to file such registration statement. We cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed. To the extent holders of ADSs are unable to exercise such rights because a registration statement has not been filed, the depositary will attempt to sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds thereof if a secondary market for such rights exists and a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. If such rights cannot be sold, they will expire and holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the grant of such preemptive rights. In any such case, such holder’s equity interest in the Company would be diluted proportionately. 10 Shareholders’ rights are less well defined in Chile than in other jurisdictions, including the United States Under the United States federal securities laws, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules that apply to domestic United States issuers with equity securities registered under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the proxy solicitation rules, the rules requiring disclosure of share ownership by directors, officers and certain shareholders. We are also exempt from certain of the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., including the requirements concerning independent directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of Chile and our estatutos or bylaws, which function not only as our bylaws but also as our articles of incorporation. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Pursuant to Law No. 19,705, enacted in December 2000, the controlling shareholders of an open stock corporation can only sell their controlling shares via a tender offer issued to all shareholders in which the bidder would have to buy all the offered shares up to the percentage determined by it, when the price paid is substantially higher than the market price (that is, when the price paid was higher than the average market price of a period starting 90 days before the proposed transaction and ending 30 days before such proposed transaction, plus 10%). The market for our shares may be volatile and illiquid The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago (the “Santiago Stock Exchange”), which is Chile’s principal securities exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$213,364 million at December 31, 2007 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$4,363 million for 2007. The lack of liquidity owing, in part, to the relatively small size of the Chilean securities markets may have a material adverse effect on the trading prices of our shares. Because the market for our ADSs depends, in part, on investors’ perception of the value of our underlying shares, this lack of liquidity for our shares in Chile may have a significant effect on the trading prices of our ADSs. 