D. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various economic, political, social and competitive conditions. Any of the following risks, if they materialize, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Company We rely heavily on our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company, which has substantial influence over our business and operations. 75% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 was derived from the distribution of soft drinks under The Coca-Cola Company trademarks, and an additional 19% was derived from the distribution of other beverages also bearing trademarks owned by The Coca-Cola Company. We produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola products through standard bottler agreements between our bottler subsidiaries and The Coca-Cola Company and in certain cases a subsidiary of The Coca-Cola Company. The Coca-Cola Company has the ability to exercise substantial influence over our business through its rights under these bottler agreements. Under these bottler agreements, The Coca-Cola Company unilaterally sets the prices for Coca-Cola soft drink concentrate sold to us. The Coca-Cola Company also monitors our prices and has the right to review and approve our marketing, operational and advertising plans. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company may unilaterally set the price for its concentrate, and it may in the future increase the price we pay for concentrate, increasing our costs. These factors may impact our profit margins, which could adversely affect our net income and results of operations. Our marketing campaigns for Coca-Cola products are designed and controlled by The Coca-Cola Company. The Coca-Cola Company also makes significant contributions to our marketing expenses, although it is not required to contribute a particular amount. Accordingly, The Coca-Cola Company may discontinue or reduce such contribution at any time. Pursuant to the bottler agreements, we are required to submit a business plan to The 11 Table of Contents Coca-Cola Company for prior approval on a yearly basis. In accordance with our bottler agreements, The Coca-Cola Company may, among other things, require that we demonstrate the financial ability to meet our business plan, and if we are not able to demonstrate our financial capacity, The Coca-Cola Company may terminate our rights to produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola soft drinks or other Coca-Cola beverages in territories where we have such approval. Under these bottler agreements, we are prohibited from producing, bottling, distributing or selling any products that could be substituted for, be confused with or be considered an imitation of, Coca-Cola soft drinks or other Coca-Cola beverages and products. We depend on The Coca-Cola Company to renew our bottler agreements, which are subject to termination by The Coca-Cola Company in the event we default or upon expiration of their respective terms. We currently are party to five bottler agreements: two agreements for Chile, which expire in 2018 and 2019, one agreement for Brazil, which expires in 2017, one agreement for Argentina, which expires in 2017, and one agreement for Paraguay, which is in process of renewal. We cannot provide any assurance that our bottler agreements will be maintained or extended upon their termination. Even if they are renewed, we cannot provide any assurance that renewal will be granted on the same terms as those currently in effect. Termination, non-extension or non-renewal of any of our bottler agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, any acquisition we make of bottlers of Coca-Cola products in other territories may require, among other things, the consent of The Coca-Cola Company under bottler agreements to which such other bottlers are subject. We cannot assure you that The Coca-Cola Company will consent to any future geographic expansion of our Coca-Cola beverage business. In addition, we cannot assure you that our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company will not deteriorate or otherwise undergo significant changes in the future. If such changes do occur, our operations and financial results and condition could be materially affected. The nonalcoholic beverage business environment is changing rapidly, including as a result of increased obesity and other health concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our financial performance. Consumers, public health officials and government officials in certain of our core markets, including Chile and Brazil, are increasingly concerned with public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and beverages sweetened with nutritive or alternative sweeteners. Increasing public concern about these issues; possible new taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages; additional governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling, packaging or sale of our beverages; and negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against nonalcoholic beverage companies relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of beverages may reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our profitability. The nonalcoholic beverage business environment in our territories is evolving rapidly as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, including changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the nonalcoholic beverage retail landscape is dynamic and constantly evolving, and if we are unable to adapt successfully to the changing environment and retail landscape, our share of nonalcoholic beverage sales, volume growth and overall financial results will be adversely affected. Our business is highly competitive, including with respect to price competition, which may adversely affect our net profits and margins. The soft drink and nonalcoholic beverage businesses are highly competitive in each of the territories in which we operate. We compete with bottlers of regional brands, including low cost “B brand” beverages and Pepsi products. In Argentina and Brazil, we compete with Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, commonly referred to as AmBev, the largest brewer in Latin America and a subsidiary of InBev S.A., which sells Pepsico trademark products, in addition to a portfolio that includes local brands with flavors, such as Guaraná. In Chile, our main competitor is Compañía de Cervecerías Unidas, which sells Pepsico trademark products as well as local brands. In Paraguay, a new local bottler of Pepsico trademark products entered the market, which we believe had 12 Table of Contents the effect of reducing our market share in Paraguay and could continue doing so. This competition in each of the regions where we operate is likely to continue, and we cannot assure you that it will not intensify in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Raw material prices may be subject to U.S. dollar/local currency exchange risk and price volatility, which could increase our costs of operations. Numerous raw materials, including concentrate, sugar and resin, are used in producing beverages and containers. Prices for concentrate are determined by The Coca-Cola Company, and we cannot assure you that The Coca-Cola Company will not increase the price for concentrate or change the manner in which these prices are calculated. We purchase our raw materials from both domestic and international suppliers, some of which must be approved by The Coca-Cola Company, which may limit the number of suppliers available to us. Because the prices of certain raw materials are denominated in U.S. dollars, we are subject to local currency risk with respect to each of our operations. If any of the Chilean peso, Brazilian real, Argentine peso, or Paraguayan guaraní were to depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar, the cost of certain raw materials in our respective territories could rise significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that these currencies will not lose value against the U.S. dollar in the future. Additionally, some raw material prices are subject to high volatility, which could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The supply or cost of specific raw materials could be adversely affected by domestic or global price changes, strikes, weather conditions, governmental controls or other factors. Any sustained interruption in the supply of these raw materials or any significant increase in their price could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Instability in the supply of utility services and oil prices may adversely impact our results of operations. Our operations depend on a stable supply of utilities and fuel in the countries where we operate. Electrical power outages could lead to increased energy prices and possible service interruptions. We cannot assure you that in the future we will not experience energy interruptions that materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, a significant increase in energy prices would raise our costs, which could materially impact our results of operations. Fluctuations in oil prices have adversely affected our cost of energy and transportation in the regions where we operate and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. We cannot assure you that fuel prices will not increase in the future, and a significant increase in fuel price may have a significant effect on our financial performance. Water scarcity and poor water quality could adversely impact our production costs and capacity. Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our products. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution and poor management. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as the quality of available water deteriorates, we may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints that could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues. In addition, the Paraguayan government recently enacted new regulations related to ownership and water usage rights. Because this legislation is new, we will also be subject to uncertainty with respect to the interpretation of the regulations, and any ambiguity or uncertainty with respect to the interpretation or application of the regulation could result in non-compliance and associated costs and penalties, which are impossible or difficult to predict. We also anticipate discussions on new regulations on ownership and water usage in Chile. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of our products. The countries in which we operate may adopt significant advertising restrictions as well as additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the chemical content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our Coca-Cola products or other products. In addition, the Chilean congress recently passed a new law with respect to labeling of certain consumer products, including soft drinks and bottled juices and waters such as ours. Because this legislation is new, we will also be subject to uncertainty with respect to the interpretation of the regulations, and any ambiguity or uncertainty with respect to the interpretation or application 13 Table of Contents of the regulation could result in non-compliance and associated costs and penalties, which are impossible or difficult to predict. These types of requirements, may adversely affect sales of our products. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain brand image and product quality. Our beverage business is highly dependent on maintaining the reputation of our products in the countries where we operate. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, our reputation and ability to remain a distributor of Coca-Cola beverages in the countries where we operate could be jeopardized. In addition, we may be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. Negative publicity or incidents related to our products may reduce their demand and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Ipiranga. The success of our acquisition of Ipiranga will depend in part on our ability to achieve synergies from the streamlining of operations and personnel, increased economies of scale, organic growth and the implementation of best practices, from each of Ipiranga and Andina, with respect to production, distribution and commercialization, across our operations in Brazil. We have been integrating Ipiranga’s operations with ours, which consists of combining back-office operations (mainly those activities related to finance, treasury, accounting, procurement, tax, legal and human resources) to achieve synergies from our combined operations. Additionally, we will determine the organizational structure and define the management team. The second stage of integration will be focused on logistics and production, as well as the exchange of commercial best practices. However, we may not be able to complete these phases of integration in a manner that achieve the synergies, efficiencies and growth opportunities in the time, manner or amount that we seek. Challenges we will face in the integration process include, among others, the following: · integrating different commercial practices and company cultures in order to provide a unified and superior client experience in each of our territories in Brazil; · streamlining human resources and different management structures, while retaining highly qualified personnel; · integrating different accounting, information technology and management systems; · integrating procurement processes and maintaining strong relations with suppliers; · maintaining client loyalty while consolidating marketing processes; and · encountering unforeseen expenses, delays or liabilities that could exceed the savings that we seek to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and cost savings. The integration process itself presents significant management challenges and is time consuming and disruptive, as it requires coordination of operations in different geographic locations in Brazil. As a result, the integration process may divert our management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our core business operations. Any such diversion could adversely affect our ability to maintain good relations with our customers, suppliers, employees, regulators and other constituencies or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our business prospects. If we fail to implement the integration with Ipiranga effectively within the timeline contemplated by us, or if for any other reason the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities fail to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operation and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Ipiranga is party to a series of ongoing administrative tax proceedings in which the Brazilian federal tax authorities have claimed that Ipiranga has unpaid liabilities for value-added taxes on 14 Table of Contents industrialized products (imposto sobre produtos industrializados, or IPI) in an aggregate amount of approximately R$939.288.545. Ipiranga disagrees with the Brazilian tax authority’s position and believes that it was entitled to claim IPI tax credits in connection with its purchases of certain exempt inputs from suppliers located in the Manaus Free Trade Zone, and believes that the Brazilian tax authority’s claims are without merit, and intends to defend its position vigorously. Our external Brazilian counsel has advised us that it believes Ipiranga’s likelihood of loss in most of these procedures should be classified as possible to remote (i.e., approximately 30% likelihood). If Ipiranga were required to pay all or a substantial portion of the amount claimed by the tax authorities, such payment could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in Ipiranga and our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, adverse preliminary decisions in one or more of these proceedings may require the use of substantial financial resources during its review by a higher court. Trademark infringement could adversely impact our beverage business. A significant portion of our sales derives from sales of soft drinks branded with Coca-Cola trademarks, as well as other trademarks. If other parties attempt to misappropriate trademarks we use, we may be unable to protect these trademarks. The maintenance of the reputation of these brands is essential for the future success of our beverage business. Misappropriation of trademarks we use, or challenges thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Weather conditions or natural disasters may adversely affect our business. Lower temperatures and higher rainfall may negatively impact consumer patterns, which may result in lower per capita consumption of our beverage offerings. Additionally, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters may affect road infrastructure in the countries in which we operate and limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For example, in February of 2010 our business experienced a temporary interruption in our production as a result of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake in central Chile; and in March 2015, flash floods in the north of Chile interrupted our production and distribution in such territory. A severe earthquake or tsunami in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and our network infrastructure. Chile lies on the Nazca tectonic plate, one of the world’s most seismically active regions. Chile has been adversely affected by powerful earthquakes in the past, including an 8.0 magnitude earthquake that struck Santiago in 1985 and a 9.5 magnitude earthquake in 1960 which was the largest earthquake ever recorded. On February 27, 2010, an 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck the central and south central regions of Chile. The quake epicenter was located 200 miles southwest of Santiago and 70 miles north of Concepción, Chile’s second largest city. The regions of Bío Bío and Maule were the most severely affected regions, especially the coastal area, which, shortly after the earthquake, was hit by a tsunami that significantly damaged cities and port facilities. The regions of Valparaíso and Metropolitan region were also severely affected. At least 1,500,000 homes were damaged and more than 500 people were killed. According to an initial assessment by the government of Chile, the repair of the resulting damage, excluding damage to port facilities, is likely to take between three and four years and the preliminary assessments of reconstruction costs indicate that they could total approximately US$30 billion. As a result of these developments, economic activity in Chile was adversely affected in March 2010. Legislation was passed to raise the corporate income tax rate in order to pay for reconstruction following the earthquake and tsunami, which had an adverse effect on our results. The legislation increased the corporate tax rate from its previous rate of 17.0% to 20.0%. A severe earthquake and/or tsunami in Chile in the future could have an adverse impact on the Chilean economy and on our production and logistics network, including our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not adequately cover losses resulting from the risks for which we are insured. We maintain insurance for our principal facilities and other assets. Our insurance coverage protects us in the event we suffer certain losses resulting from theft, fraud, expropriation, business interruption, natural disasters or other similar events or from business interruptions caused by such events. In addition, we maintain insurance policies for our directors and officers. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or will provide adequate compensation for losses that we may incur. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including over the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications among us and our clients, suppliers and also among our subsidiaries. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Perception of risk in emerging economies may impede our access to international capital markets, hinder our ability to finance our operations and adversely affect our financial performance. International investors generally consider Argentina and Paraguay, and to a lesser extent Chile and Brazil, to be emerging market economies. Consequently, economic conditions and the market for securities of emerging market countries influence investors’ perceptions of Chile, Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay and their evaluation of securities of companies located in these countries. During periods of heightened investor concern regarding emerging market economies, in particular Argentina and to a lesser extent Brazil and Paraguay, have experienced significant outflows of U.S. dollars. In addition, in these periods Brazilian, Argentine and Paraguayan companies have faced higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, as well as limited access to international capital markets, which have negatively affected the prices of the aforementioned countries’ securities. Although economic conditions are different in each of the emerging-market countries, investors’ reactions to developments in one of these countries may affect the securities of issuers in the others, including Chile. For example, adverse developments in other developing or emerging market countries may lead to decreased investor interest in investing in Chile or in the securities of Chilean companies. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to renew collective bargaining labor agreements on satisfactory terms or experience strikes or other labor unrest. A substantial portion of our employees is covered by collective bargaining labor agreements. These agreements generally expire every one, two or three years, as the case may be. Our inability to renegotiate these agreements on satisfactory terms could cause work stoppages and interruptions, which may adversely impact our operations. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operational efficiency. We experience periodic strikes and other forms of labor unrest through the ordinary course of business. For example, in 2008 we experienced a strike in our production facilities in Chile, which lasted for a period of approximately two weeks, and which had a significant effect on our production capacity. We cannot assure you labor interruptions or other labor unrest will not occur in the future. If we experience strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest at any of our production facilities, our ability to supply finished beverages to customers could be impaired, which would reduce our net operating revenues and could expose us to customer claims. 16 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive regulation, which is complex and subject to change. We are subject to local regulations in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are water, environment, labor, taxation, health, consumer protection, advertising and antitrust. Regulation could also affect our ability to set prices for our products. The adoption of new laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation or enforcement thereof in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results. Further changes in current regulations may result in increased compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our results or financial condition. In the past, voluntary price restraints or statutory price controls have been imposed in several of the countries in which we operate. Currently there are no price controls applicable to our products in any of the territories in which we operate, other than in Argentina, where there are voluntary price restraints. There are currently no published laws or regulations imposing price controls on our products in Argentina. Nonetheless, we have complied with the request by Argentine government authorities to maintain prices of certain products sold through supermarkets. The imposition of these restrictions or voluntary price restraints in Argentina or other territories may have an adverse effect on our results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that government authorities in Argentina or in any country in which we operate will not impose statutory price controls, or that we will not be asked to accept further voluntary price restraints in the future. We may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with various environmental laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to our products and activities. If these environmental laws and regulations are strengthened or newly established in jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses, we may be required to incur considerable expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Such expenses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. To the extent we determine that it is not financially sound for us to continue to comply with such laws and regulations, we may have to curtail or discontinue our activities in the affected business areas. If we were to become subject to adverse judgments or determinations in legal proceedings to which we are, or may become, a party, our future profitability could suffer through a reduction of sales, increased costs or damage to our reputation due to our failure to adequately communicate the impact of any such proceeding or its outcome to the investor and business communities. In the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in various other claims, lawsuits, investigations and governmental and administrative proceedings, some of which are or may be significant. In addition, Andina Brazil is party to a series of ongoing administrative tax proceedings in which the Brazilian federal tax authorities have claimed that Andina Brazil has unpaid liabilities for value-added taxes on industrialized products (imposto sobre produtos industrializados, or IPI) involving aggregate claims of a significant amount. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Ipiranga.” Adverse judgments or determinations in one or more of these proceedings could require us to change the way we do business or use substantial resources in adhering to the settlements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, among other consequences, by significantly increasing the costs required to operate our business. Ineffective communications, during or after these proceedings, could amplify the negative effects, if any, of these proceedings on our reputation and may result in a negative market impact on the price of our securities. Additionally, adverse preliminary decisions in one or more of these proceedings may require the use of substantial financial resources during its review by a higher court. The countries in which we operate may adopt new tax laws or modify existing laws to increase taxes applicable to our business. We cannot assure you that any governmental authority in any country where we operate will not impose new taxes or increase taxes on our products in the future. The imposition of new taxes or increases in taxes on our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results. 17 Table of Contents For example, in Chile, a tax reform became effective in September 2014. This reform provides “Transitional rules” for business years 2014, 2015 and 2016 and “Permanent rules” for business years 2017 and following. In the Transitional Regime, for calendar years 2014, 2015 and 2016, the Reform progressively increases the Corporate Income Tax rate (“corporate income tax”) to 21%, 22.5% and 24%, respectively. There are no changes to the taxation that applies to dividends paid to non-resident in Chile shareholders. The additional tax rate (“withholding tax”) remains at 35% and credit for 100 percent of corporate income tax that may be charged to dividends remitted abroad. For local shareholders, natural persons domiciled or resident in Chile the current regime also remains.. They are taxed with the Supplementary Global Tax which has progressive rates ranging between 0% and 40% in the year they receive the payment of the dividend, entitled to credit for the entirety of corporate income tax paid by the issuer of the shares. For the business year 2017 the rate will be 25% for companies that choose the “attributed” system and 25.5% for those taxed by the “semi-integrated” system. In the Permanent Regime, for the years 2017 and following, taxpayers may choose one of the following income taxation schemes: a) Attributed Regime: in this scheme, annual accrued profits are immediately charged with the corporate income tax rate of 25% and an Additional Tax of 35%, maintaining the right to credit against the latter, 100% of corporate income tax. In this option, not resident in Chile shareholders are taxed with the Additional Tax regardless of whether the Chilean company pays a dividend or not, since the Additional Tax should be declared and paid in the year in which profits are accrued in the Chilean company that has issued the shares. The same applies to local shareholders, natural persons domiciled in Chile, but with a maximum rate of 35% for Supplementary Global Tax. (b) Semi-integrated regime: under this regime, the earned annual profits are taxed with the corporate income tax rate of 27% (25.5% for business year 2017). Dividends remitted abroad and those paid to local shareholders are taxed with additional tax or Supplementary Global Tax (with a maximum rate of 35%) only in the year of the payment of the dividend. The additional tax rate remains at 35% with corporate income tax credit paid by the issuing company. Notwithstanding the previous, local shareholders and shareholders domiciled in countries that do not have an existing Treaty to avoid double taxation with Chile, can only credit 65% of corporate income tax, with which total tax burden on profits distributed to these shareholders rises to 44,45%. The credit limitation is made by establishing a debit (tax) to the shareholder equal to 35% of corporate income tax. It should be noted, that in an open stock corporation the option to choose the regime which will be used, must be approved at an extraordinary shareholders meeting with a quorum of at least two thirds of the shares issued with voting rights. For the first period (business year 2017), the option must be exercised (via a statement to the tax authority) during the second half of business year 2016. If it does not exercise the option, it will be subject to the semi-integrated system. The same reform increased the additional tax on non-alcoholic beverages with sugar from 13% to 18%, and reduced the additional tax on non-alcoholic beverages without sugar from 13% to 10%. In November 2012, the government of the Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina, adopted Law No. 14,394, which increased the tax rate applied to revenue from products sold within the Province of Buenos Aires. For products manufactured in the territory of the Province of Buenos Aires, Law No. 14,394 increased the tax rate from 1% to 1.75%, and for products manufactured in any other Argentine province, from 3% to 4%. In January 2013, the government of the Province of Chubut, Argentina, adopted Law No. XXIV-62, which increased the tax rate applied to revenue from products sold within the Province of Chubut and manufactured in any other Argentine province from 3% to 4%. In December 2012, the government of the Province of La Pampa, Argentina, adopted Law No. 2,700, which increased the tax rate applied to revenue from products sold within the Province of La Pampa and manufactured in any other Argentine province, from 1.5% to 2.5%. In January 2013, the government of the Province of Mendoza, Argentina, adopted Law No. 8,523, which increased the tax rate applied to revenue from the sale of mineral water bottled in any other Argentine province and sold within the Province of Mendoza from 4% to 6%. In January 2013, the government of the Province of Río Negro, Argentina, 18 Table of Contents adopted Law No. 4,816, which increased the tax rate applied to revenue from products sold within the Province of Río Negro and manufactured in any other Argentine province from 1.8% to 3%. Given the high tax burden in Brazil, the government provides relevant tax incentives to attract investment to certain territories, particularly for manufacturers and other companies operating and investing in Brazil. Andina Brazil has been provided with some of said incentives. However, these incentive programs may be modified or terminated, thereby increasing our cost of operations in Brazil. Termination, non-extension or non-renewal of said tax incentives would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on economic conditions in Chile. 39.3% of our assets as of December 31, 2014 and 27.3% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 corresponded to our operations in Chile. Thus, our financial condition and results of operations depend significantly on economic conditions prevailing in Chile. International and local economic crisis may adversely affect the Chilean economy, and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products. In difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or buying low cost “B brands” offered by competitors. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy grew at a rate of 5.6% in 2012, 4.2% in 2013 and 1.9% in 2014. Our financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected by changes over which we have no control, including, without limitation: · the economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector; · other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile; · regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities; · inflation and governmental policies to combat inflation; · currency exchange movements; and · global and regional economic conditions. We cannot assure you that Chile’s economy will continue to grow in the future, nor can we assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy will not impair our ability to successfully carry out our business plan or materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inflation in Chile and government measures to curb inflation may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although Chilean inflation has decreased in recent years, Chile has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. The annual rates of inflation in Chile, which in 2012, 2013 and 2014 were 1.5%, 3.0% and 4.6%, respectively, as measured by changes in the consumer price index and as reported by the INE (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas, or the Chilean National Institute of Statistics), could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to increase our prices in line with inflation. We cannot assure you that Chilean inflation will not revert to prior levels in the future. 19 Table of Contents The measures taken by the Central Bank to control inflation have often included maintaining a conservative monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and economic growth. Inflation, measures to combat inflation, and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Chile and to heightened volatility in its securities markets. Periods of higher inflation may also slow the growth rate of the Chilean economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and decreased sales. Inflation is also likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, given that the majority of our supply contracts are UF-denominated or are indexed to the Chilean consumer price index, and we cannot assure you that, under competitive pressure, we will be able to realize price increases, which could adversely impact our operating margins and operating income. Additionally, an important part of our financial debt is UF-denominated, and therefore the value of the debt reflects any increase of the inflation in Chile. The Chilean peso is subject to depreciation and volatility, which could adversely affect our business. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our operations and financial results. The Chilean peso has been subject to large nominal devaluations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. The main drivers of exchange rate volatility in past years were the significant fluctuations of commodity prices, as well as general uncertainty and trade imbalances in the global markets. In 2011, the Chilean peso appreciated mainly resulting from worsening financial conditions in certain Eurozone countries and higher volatility in global financial markets. The more recent exchange rate volatility has also been driven by uncertainty about the Eurozone’s financial situation and its effects on global growth. The value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Based on the Observed Exchange Rates for U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Chilean peso appreciated 7.6% and depreciated 9.3% and 15.7% relative to the U.S. dollar in nominal terms, respectively. Risks Relating to Brazil Our business operations in Brazil are dependent on economic conditions in Brazil. 36.6% of our assets as December 31, 2014 and 39.8% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 corresponded to our operations in Brazil. Because demand for soft drinks and beverage products is usually correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the relevant local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country in which the market is located, our financial condition and results of operations to a considerable extent are dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing in Brazil. The Brazilian economy is also affected by international economic and market conditions in general, especially economic and market conditions in the United States. Similarly to other emerging market countries, the Brazilian currency depreciated significantly during 2014, attributed in part to an outflow of capital related to the expectation that the United States Federal Reserve will reduce or end its “quantitative easing” economic stimulus measures. The Brazilian economy is therefore subject to uncertainties and risks related to changes in economic conditions and policy measures in countries such as the United States and China, as well as the European Union and elsewhere. In recent years, the Brazilian economy has experienced a decline in GDP growth. After growing at a rate of 7.6% in 2010, GDP increased by 3.9% in 2011, 1.0% in 2012, 2.7 in 2013 and 0.1 in 2014. During 2013 and 2014, the Brazilian economy has also experienced rising inflation, partially resulting from a significant depreciation in the value of its currency. Increased inflation and decreased economic growth have also contributed to an increase in social unrest, including public protests. In late August 2013, the Central Bank of Brazil announced new policy measures, including interventions in foreign exchange markets designed to prevent the real from depreciating further, as well as raising Brazil’s benchmark interest rate, designed to prevent a further increase in inflation. However, the effect of such policy measures are subject to significant uncertainties, and we cannot provide any assurance that these measures will be effective in causing an improvement in economic conditions, or that they will not lead to unintended, adverse effects on the Brazilian economy. 20 Table of Contents The Brazilian government exercises significant influence over the Brazilian economy, which together with historically volatile Brazilian political, social and economic conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian government has intervened in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes to monetary, tax and credit policies, among others. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation, stimulate economic expansion and implement other policies have included, among others, salary and price controls, appreciation or depreciation of the Brazilian real, foreign exchange adjustments, control over remittances abroad and intervention by the Central Bank of Brazil to change the basic interest rates. We cannot foresee or control which measures or policies the Brazilian government may adopt in the future. Our activities, financial and operating results, as well as our estimates may be adversely affected by changes in the policies adopted by the Brazilian government, as well as by general factors, including, but not limited to: · Brazilian economic expansion; · inflation; · interest rates; · variation in foreign exchange rates; · foreign exchange rate control policies; · liquidity of domestic capital and debt markets; · tax policy and changes in tax laws; and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic guidelines or events in Brazil or otherwise affecting the country. Changes and uncertainties with respect to the implementation of the aforementioned governmental policies may contribute to uncertainties in Brazil. In 2011, a new presidential term began, which raised the possibility of the introduction of new economic and social policies at the federal and state levels. Historically, changes in government have brought changes to Brazilian economic policy. As of mid-2013, the Brazilian economy had experienced declining GDP growth, as well as a depreciated currency and increased inflation. In late August 2013, the Brazilian central bank announced new policy measures, including interventions in foreign exchange markets designed to prevent the real from depreciating further, as well as raising Brazil’s benchmark interest rate, designed to prevent a further increase in inflation. However, the effect of such policy measures are subject to significant uncertainties, and we cannot provide any assurance that these measures will be effective in causing an improvement in economic conditions, or that they will not lead to unintended, adverse effects on the Brazilian economy. Any unfavorable policy changes by the Brazilian government could adversely affect us. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government will implement changes in policy or laws affecting these and other factors in the future may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil. These factors, as well as uncertainties about the policies or regulations to be adopted by the Brazilian government with respect to these factors may adversely affect us, including our activities and financial performance. Inflation and the Brazilian government’s measures to curb inflation, including by increasing interest rates, may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil, adversely affecting the operations of Andina Brazil, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Brazil has historically experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation, and several measures taken by the Federal Government in order to control it, combined with speculation about possible government 21 Table of Contents measures, had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Historically, the annual inflation rates recorded in Brazil before 1995 were extremely high, and included periods of hyperinflation. The annual rate of inflation measured by the price index known as the IPCA (Índice Nacional de Preçosao Consumidor Amplo) was 6.50% in 2011, 5.84% in 2012 and 5.91% in 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2014 the IPCA was 6.41%. Considering this history and the uncertainty around the Brazilian government’s policies, we cannot provide any assurance that inflation rates in Brazil will not increase. Inflationary pressures may result in governmental interventions in the economy, including policies that could adversely affect the general performance of the Brazilian economy, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business operations in Brazil. Inflation may also increase our costs and expenses, and we may be unable to transfer such costs to our customers, reducing our profit margins and net income. In addition, inflation could also affect us indirectly, as our customers may also be affected and have their financial capacity reduced. Any decrease in our net sales or net income, as well as any reduction in our financial performance, may also result in a reduction in our net operating margin. Our customers and suppliers may be affected by high inflation rates and such effects on our customers and suppliers may adversely affect us. The Brazilian real is subject to depreciation and volatility, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian currency has fluctuated over the past three decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), exchange controls, dual exchange market and floating exchange rate systems. Although long-term devaluation of the real is generally related to the rate of inflation in Brazil, the devaluation of the real over shorter periods has resulted in significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency, the U.S. dollar and other currencies. For example, the real depreciated 15.7% in 2001 and 34.3% in 2002 against the U.S. dollar. However, the real appreciated 13.4%, 9.5% and 20.7% against the U.S. dollar in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, as a result of the worsening global economic crisis, the real depreciated 24.2% against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$2.34 to US$1.00 on December 31, 2008. In 2009, the real appreciated 34.2% against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$1.74 to US$1.00. In 2010, the real appreciated 9.6% against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$1.666 to US$1.00 on December 31, 2010. In 2011, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$1.866 to US$1.00 on December 31, 2011. In 2012, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$2.0435 to US$1.00 on December 31, 2012. In 2013, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$2.3426 to US$1.00. In 2014, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, closing at R$2.6562 to US$1.00. We cannot guarantee that the real will not again depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any deprecation or appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar or other currencies will not have an adverse effect on our business. Any depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressure, which might result in the Brazilian government adopting restrictive policies to combat inflation. This could lead to increases in interest rates, which might negatively affect the Brazilian economy as a whole, as well as our results of operations, in addition to restricting our access to international financial markets. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our revenues. On the other hand, future appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar might result in the deterioration of Brazil’s current and capital accounts, as well as a weakening of Brazilian GDP growth derived from exports. Risks Relating to ArgentinaOur business operations in Argentina are dependent on economic conditions in Argentina. 10.0% of our assets as of December 31, 2014 and 25.7% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 corresponded to our operations in Argentina. Because demand for soft drinks and beverage products is usually correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country, the financial condition and results of operations of our business operations in Argentina are, to a considerable extent, dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. 22 Table of Contents Historically, the Argentine economy has experienced periods of high levels of instability and volatility, low or negative economic growth and high and variable inflation and devaluation levels. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of major political, economic and social instability, which led to a partial default by Argentina in the payment of its sovereign debt, and the devaluation of the peso in January 2002, after over ten years of parity with the U.S. dollar. Although general economic conditions in Argentina have recovered significantly during the past years, there is uncertainty as to whether this recovery is sustainable. This is mainly because recent economic growth was initially dependent on a significant devaluation of the Argentine peso, a high excess production capacity resulting from a long period of deep recession and high commodity prices. According to the INDEC (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos, or the National Statistics and Census Institute), GDP growth in real terms in Argentina 9.2% in 2010, 8.9% in 2011, 1.9% in 2012, 3.0% in 2013 and 0.5% in 2014. We cannot assure you that Argentine GDP will increase or remain stable in the future. The economic crisis in Europe, the international demand for Argentine products, the stability and competitiveness of the Argentine peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors, a stable and relatively low rate of inflation and the future political uncertainties, among other factors, may affect the development of the Argentine economy. Political and economic instability in Argentina may recur, which could have a material adverse effect on our Argentine operations and on our financial condition and results of operations. In the period from 1998 through 2003, Argentina experienced acute economic difficulties that culminated in the restructuring of substantially all of Argentina’s sovereign indebtedness. A succession of presidents was inaugurated during this crisis period and various states of emergency were declared that suspended civil liberties and instituted restrictions on transfers of funds abroad and foreign exchange controls, among other measures. Argentina’s GDP contracted 10.9% in 2002. Beginning in 2003, Argentine GDP began to recover and from 2004 to 2008 recorded an average rate of growth of 8.4%. The global economic crisis of 2008 led to a sudden economic decline, accompanied by political and social unrest, inflationary and Argentine peso depreciation pressures and lack of consumer and investor confidence, which have forced the Argentine government to adopt different measures, including the tightening of foreign exchange controls, the elimination of subsidies to the private sector and the proposal for new taxes. Moreover, the Argentine government may increase its level of intervention in certain areas of the economy. For example, in May of 2012, the Argentine government nationalized YPF S.A., Argentina’s largest and previously Spanish-owned oil company. Expropriations and other interventions by the Argentine government such as the one relating to YPF can have an adverse impact on the level of foreign investment in Argentina, the access of Argentine companies to the international capital markets and Argentina’s commercial and diplomatic relations with other countries. In the future, the level of governmental intervention in the economy may continue, which may have adverse effects on Argentina’s economy and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Argentine government could impose certain restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad, which could affect the timing and amount of any dividends or other payment we receive from our Argentine subsidiary. In 2001 and 2002, the Argentine government implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures, which included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks and stringent restrictions on the outflow of foreign currency from Argentina, including for purposes of paying principal and interest on debt and distributing dividends. Although most of these restrictions were eased in the past, as a consequence of the increase of the demand in Argentina for U.S. dollars and the capital flows out of Argentina during 2011, the Argentine government imposed additional restrictions on the purchase of foreign currency and on certain transfers of funds from Argentina and reduced the time required to comply with certain transfers of funds into Argentina. Under current Argentine law, we may declare and distribute dividends with respect to our Argentine subsidiary and Argentine banks may lawfully process payments of those dividends to us and other non-resident shareholders. Our declaration and distribution of dividends is subject to certain statutory requirements and must 23 Table of Contents be consistent with our audited financial statements. The processing of payment of dividends by Argentine banks is subject to Argentine Central Bank regulations, including verification of our Argentine subsidiary’s compliance with foreign debt and direct investment disclosure obligations. In addition to statutory and administrative rules affecting our Argentine subsidiary’s payment of dividends, during 2012 the Argentine government imposed discretionary restrictions on Argentine companies as part of a policy to limit outbound transfers of U.S. dollars. These de facto restrictions essentially halted dividend payments to non-resident shareholders. The Argentine government has begun to relax these restrictions. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will be able to cause our Argentine subsidiary to distribute dividends to its non-resident shareholders now or in the foreseeable future, despite otherwise meeting all statutory and regulatory requirements for payment. Argentina’s government may impose certain restrictions on imports, which could have an impact in our operations. Pursuant to a resolution of the Argentine Federal Tax Authority (“Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos—AFIP”), since February 2012, prior to the execution of any purchase order or similar document, Argentine importers are required to file before the AFIP a “Prior Import Statement” (Declaración Jurada Anticipada de Importación) providing information on future imports. Compliance with this requirement will be verified by the Argentine customs upon arrival of the goods into Argentina and will be a condition for the authorization of the payment of the purchase price by the Argentine financial entities. Although this is intended merely as an information regime, it may be used for purposes of restricting imports into Argentina. A similar regime was also imposed in respect of the import and export of services, and could result in additional restrictions being imposed on the payments made by Argentine residents on services provided by foreign residents. The imposition of this regime may restrict the imports of goods and services of our Argentine subsidiaries which may adversely affect our financial conditions or results of operations. Inflation in Argentina may adversely affect our operations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Argentina has experienced high levels of inflation in recent decades, resulting in large devaluations of its currency. Argentina’s historically high rates of inflation resulted mainly from its lack of control over fiscal policy and the money supply. According to the INDEC, the official annual rates of inflation for the years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 were 9.5%, 10.8%, 10.9% and 23.9%, respectively. Moreover, after changes in personnel and in the methodology used to calculate the consumer price index at the INDEC in 2007, the accuracy of its measurements has been put in doubt by economists and investors, and the actual consumer price index and wholesale price index could be substantially higher than those indicated by the INDEC. If it is determined that it is necessary to correct the consumer price index and other INDEC indices, there could be a significant decrease in confidence in the Argentine economy, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to generate conditions that foster economic growth. In addition, high inflation or a high level of price instability may materially and adversely affect the business volume of the financial system. This result, in turn, could adversely affect the level of economic activity and employment in the country. High inflation would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness and adversely affect economic activity, employment, real salaries, consumption and interest rates. In addition, the dilution of the positive effects of the Argentine peso devaluation on the export-oriented sectors of the Argentine economy will decrease the level of economic activity in the country. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia, the Stabilization Coefficient Index, or “CER Index,” a currency index that is strongly tied to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in Argentina’s debt and, consequently, the country’s financial obligations. A high level of uncertainty with respect to these economic indicators, and a general lack of stability with respect to inflation, could cause a shortening of contract terms and affect the ability of businesses to plan and make decisions, thereby potentially materially and adversely affecting economic activity and lowering consumers’ and individuals’ income and their purchasing power, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 24 Table of Contents Due to a default by Argentina on its debt obligations in 2001 and related litigation, the ability of Argentina and private sector companies in Argentina to obtain financing and to attract direct foreign investment is and will continue to be limited, which may have material adverse effects on the economy and our financial performance. Argentina has very limited access to foreign financing. In December 2001, Argentina defaulted on over $81.8 billion in external debt to bondholders. In addition, since 2002, Argentina suspended payments on over $15.7 billion in debt to multilateral financial institutions (and continues to owe a substantial portion of this amount to the Paris Club and to other financial institutions). As of December 31, 2013, Argentina’s total public debt amounted to approximately $28.4 billion (excluding the debt in default to bondholders). In addition, the foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies, including public utilities, and bondholders filed claims that exceeded US$20 billion with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or “ICSID.” During 2013, approximately US$ 680 million of these claims were settled. As of the date hereof, approximately US$ 15 billion in claims remains pending. In addition, pursuant to an order dated February 23, 2012, as amended by an order dated November 21, 2012, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted an injunction requiring Argentina to pay the holders of the defaulted debt as a precondition to making a single interest payment under the restructured debt. The injunction further required Argentina to pay into an escrow account over $1.3 billion prior to making the payment of the restructured debt on the December 15, 2012 scheduled payment. Upon appeal by Argentina, on August 23, 2013 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld the lower court order requiring Argentina to pay holdout bondholders as a condition to payments to holders of restructured debt. On September 11, 2013, Argentina’s Congress approved an open-ended bond swap offer that would allow holders of the remaining 7% of bonds still outstanding after the country’s 2002 default (as well as participating bondholders) to exchange their instruments for new bonds governed by Argentine Law. On October 3, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ordered Argentina to desist from the exchange offer. Argentina has appealed the Second Circuit’s ruling to the Supreme Court and has appealed the District Court’s order to desist from implementing the exchange offer. This substantial uncertainty on the outstanding defaulted debt limits the access of Argentina to foreign financing in the international markets. Without access to international private financing, Argentina may not be able to finance its obligations, which could also inhibit the ability of the Argentine Central Bank to adopt measures to curb inflation and could adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth and public finances, which could, in turn, adversely affect our operations in Argentina, our financial condition and the results of our operations. The Argentine peso is subject to depreciation and volatility, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. After several years of price stability in Argentina, the devaluation of the Argentine peso in January 2002 imposed pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation throughout 2002. The devaluation had an adverse effect on the ability of Argentine companies to make timely payments on their foreign currency denominated obligations, generated high inflation throughout 2002, significantly reduced real salaries and had an adverse effect on companies that were focused on the domestic market, such as public service companies and financial companies. It also adversely affected the ability of the government to honor its foreign debt obligations. During 2014, the official exchange rate in Argentina further depreciated 48.4% against the U.S. dollar with respect to the official exchange rate as of the end of 2013. In order to ensure the level of reserves of the Banco Central de la República Argentina (“BCRA”), the Argentine government implemented in late 2011 a series of measures aimed at maintaining the level of the BCRA reserves. To that effect, during the last quarter of 2011, 2012 and 2013, new measures were implemented to limit the purchase of foreign currency made by private companies and individuals. Access to the foreign exchange market requires authorization of the tax authorities, among other restrictions. As a result, the implied exchange rate in the quotation of Argentine securities that trade in foreign markets and in the local market increased significantly. Given the economic and political conditions in Argentina, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Argentine peso may depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar, the euro or other foreign currencies, which could partially or totally reduce the current gap between the exchange rate 25 Table of Contents published by the BCRA and the black market exchange rate. We cannot predict how these conditions will affect the consumption of our products. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Argentine government will further modify its monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate policy and, if so, what impact any of these changes could have on the value of the Argentine peso and, accordingly, on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on our ability to transfer funds abroad in order to comply with commercial or financial obligations. According to IFRS, which is the method under which the Company presents its results, the results generated by our operations in Argentina are translated to the reporting currency using the official exchange rate. Government measures to preempt or respond to social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our business. During the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced significant social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina’s economic recovery and relative stabilization, social and political tension and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. In 2008, Argentina faced nationwide strikes and protests. In November of 2012 there was a general strike led by opposition trade unions. The social unrest increased during the last months of 2012, and in December 2012 additional riots occurred, in addition to lootings to shops and supermarkets in various cities around the country. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the Argentine economy, and thereby our business, results of operations and financial condition. The reform of the retirement and pension integrated system has materially and adversely affected the local capital markets and may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain liquidity for our operations. In November 2008, the Argentine government eliminated the private retirement system. The elimination of this system created a significant change in the operations of the local capital markets, as the private retirement funds were significant institutional investors in respect of local issuances of debt. The elimination of institutional investors and the related sources of funding from the local market could materially and adversely affect our future ability to access capital through the domestic capital markets to fund the operations of our Argentine subsidiaries. In addition, the nationalization of the private retirement funds has adversely affected investor confidence in Argentina, which may impact our Argentine subsidiaries’ ability to access the capital markets in the future. The government may order salary increases to be paid to employees in the private sector, which could increase our operating costs and affect our results of operations. In the past, the Argentine government has passed laws, regulations and decrees requiring companies in the private sector to increase wages and provide specified benefits to employees, and may do so again in the future. Due to the high levels of inflation, labor organizations are demanding significant wage increases. In August 2012, the Argentine government established a 25% increase in the minimum salary and during the beginning of 2013, organized labor has agreed with employers’ associations on salary increases between 22% and 25%. It is possible that the Argentine government could adopt measures mandating salary increases and/or the provision of additional employee benefits in the future, which could have a material and adverse effect on our expenses and business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Argentine tax laws may adversely affect the results of our operations. The Argentine government is currently developing a bill to amend the income tax law denominated “Anti-Evasion Plan III.” Pursuant to the proposed bill, among other things, deductible losses (that can be deducted within the following five years) would be limited to 30% of the gains earned in each fiscal year; capital gains obtained from foreign individuals or entities from the sale, exchange or disposition of shares and other securities would be subject to the income tax at a rate of 35%; and payments made to individuals or entities located or 26 Table of Contents incorporated in countries with no income taxation would be subject to withholding at a rate of 35% and would not be deductible. If these amendments are passed into law, the limitations on the deductions may adversely affect the results of our Argentine subsidiaries’ operations; and the taxation of the capital gains will adversely impact the results of the sale or disposition of our Argentine subsidiaries’ shares. Risks Relating to Paraguay Our business operations in Paraguay are dependent on economic conditions in Paraguay. 14.1% of our assets as of December 31, 2014 and 7.2% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 corresponded to our operations in Paraguay. Because demand for soft drinks and beverage products is generally related to the economic conditions prevailing in the local market which, in turn, depend on the macroeconomic and political conditions of the country, our financial situation and our results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in these factors over which we have no control. The GDP growth of Paraguay for 2014 was approximately 4.0%, and in 2013 increased 14.2% compared to the previous year, after having decreased 1.2% in 2012. In 2011 the GDP increased approximately 4%. The decrease in GDP in 2012 was heavily influenced by the effects of a severe drought on the agricultural industry during 2011 and 2012, mainly on soybeans, corn and sunflower crops. In addition, there was an outbreak of foot and mouth disease detected in the last months of 2011, which resulted in the closing of markets for Paraguayan meat and a reduction in the levels of slaughtering activity during the first half of 2012. This reduction was reversed during the second half of 2012. Inflation in Paraguay may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation in Paraguay during 2014 was 4.2%, in 2013 was 3.7% and in 2012 was 4.0, remaining below the maximum target of 7.5%. An increase in inflation in Paraguay could decrease the purchasing power of our consumers in the country, which could adversely affect our volumes and impact our sales income. We cannot assure you that inflation in Paraguay will not increase significantly. The Paraguayan guaraní is subject to depreciation and volatility, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The exchange rate of Paraguay is free and floating and the Banco Central de Paraguay, or Paraguay Central Bank (“BCP”), actively participates in the exchange market in order to smooth abrupt oscillations. In 2012 the local currency depreciated 5.9%, while in 2013, it appreciated 3.0%. In 2014 it depreciated 4.2%. Nevertheless, the guaraní experienced substantial volatility during 2012. It appreciated during the first quarter, depreciated by 11% during the second and third quarters, as a result of lower export earnings, and stabilized towards the last quarter of the year, closing 2012 with an appreciation of approximately 3%. A significant depreciation of the local currency could adversely affect our financial situation and financial results, as 25% of our total costs of raw materials and supplies are in U.S. dollars, as well as impact other expenses such as professional fees and maintenance costs. Risk Factors Relating to the ADRs and Common Stock Preemptive rights may be unavailable to ADR holders According to the Ley de Sociedades Anónimas No. 18.046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (collectively, the “Chilean Companies Law”), whenever we issue new shares for cash, we are required to grant preemptive rights to holders of our shares (including shares represented by ADRs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADRs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 27 Table of Contents 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to such rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is available. Under the procedure established by the Central Bank of Chile, the foreign investment agreement of a Chilean company with an existing ADR program will become subject to an amendment (which will also be deemed to incorporate all laws and regulations applicable to international offerings in effect as of the date of the amendment) that will extend the benefits of such contract to new shares issued pursuant to a preemptive rights offering to existing ADR owners and to other persons residing and domiciled outside of Chile that exercise preemptive rights, upon request to the Central Bank of Chile. We intend to evaluate at the time of any rights offering the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement as well as the indirect benefits to us of enabling United States ADR holders to exercise preemptive rights and any other factors that we consider appropriate at the time, and then make a decision as to whether to file such registration statement. We cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed. To the extent ADR holders are unable to exercise such rights because a registration statement has not been filed, the depositary will attempt to sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds thereof if a secondary market for such rights exists and a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. If such rights cannot be sold, they will expire and ADR holders will not realize any value from the grant of such preemptive rights. In any such case, such holder’s equity interest in the Company would be diluted proportionately. Shareholders’ rights are less well defined in Chile than in other jurisdictions, including the United States Under the United States federal securities laws, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules that apply to domestic United States issuers with equity securities registered under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the proxy solicitation rules, the rules requiring disclosure of share ownership by directors, officers and certain shareholders. We are also exempt from certain of the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., including the requirements concerning independent directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of Chile and our estatutos or bylaws, which function not only as our bylaws but also as our articles of incorporation. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Pursuant to Law No. 19,705, enacted in December 2000, the controlling shareholders of an open stock corporation can only sell their controlling shares via a tender offer issued to all shareholders in which the bidder would have to buy all the offered shares up to the percentage determined by it, when the price paid is substantially higher than the market price (that is, when the price paid was higher than the average market price of a period starting 90 days before the proposed transaction and ending 30 days before such proposed transaction, plus 10%). The market for our shares may be volatile and illiquid. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago (the “Santiago Stock Exchange”), which is Chile’s principal securities exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$265,150 million at December 31, 2013 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$3,640 million for 2013. The lack of liquidity is owed, in part, to the relatively small size of the Chilean securities markets and may have a material adverse effect on the trading prices of our shares. Because the market for our ADRs depends, in part, on investors’ perception of the value of our underlying shares, this lack of liquidity for our shares in Chile may have a significant effect on the trading prices of our ADRs. 28 Table of Contents 