Risk Factors We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, industry and business and financial conditions that may affect our results of operations or financial condition, including, but not limited to, the risks described below. 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Paper and Packaging Industry and Our Business We have substantial debt and may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt. At December 31, 2006, we had Ps 5,793.9 million of total debt, substantially all of which was denominated in dollars. Our ability to make scheduled interest payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness will depend on the financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries. This performance, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions in Mexico and the United States and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, fluctuations in international prices of our products as well as conditions in the paper and packaging industry. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to delay capital expenditures, or sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. Our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources may not always be sufficient to service our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot assure you as to the terms of any transaction or how soon any transaction could be completed. Our operations are and will continue to be restricted by covenants in our debt agreements. We have entered into a common agreement, which we refer to as the Common Agreement, for the benefit of the holders of our Series B Step Up Rate Senior Secured Guaranteed Notes Due 2012, or Series B notes, and the creditors under the Restructured Credit Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2005, among Corporación Durango, S.A. de C.V., the Guarantors named therein, the Tranche A Holders named therein, and The Bank of New York, as Administrative Agent, or the Restructured Credit Agreement. The Common Agreement, as well as some of our other debt agreements, have negative covenants and other restrictions that will limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends, acquire shares of stock of our company or certain of our subsidiaries, make payments on subordinated debt or make investments; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • issue or sell capital stock of our company or certain of our subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; • sell or exchange assets; • enter into sale and lease-back transactions; • enter into transactions with stockholders and affiliates of our company; • create liens on assets of our company or certain of our subsidiaries; and • effect mergers. These negative covenants may have important consequences for our operations, including: • our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, thus making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or our business concerns; and • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. 8 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to cyclicality and fluctuations in pricing. Our business is affected by trends in international prices and demand for paper and packaging products. Prices for containerboard and, to a lesser extent, converted products such as corrugated containers and multi-wall sacks have historically been subject to cyclical fluctuations. Pricing is affected not only by demand for paper and packaging products, which correlates with real economic growth, but also by current inventory levels of customers. In addition, the paper and packaging industries are highly capital intensive and the impact of new production facilities may result in imbalances between supply and demand. Any decrease in demand or increase in supply could adversely affect the prices of our products and our net sales revenue. We are vulnerable to competition in Mexico and the United States from producers of paper and packaging products with substantial resources. We face increasing competition in Mexico from international producers of paper and packaging due in part to significantly enhanced market access for imported products. Actions by our competitors, including any future increases in their capacity, may make it increasingly difficult for us to maintain our domestic market share in paper and packaging products. Increased competition from imports may have a material adverse effect on our company by driving down our prices and decreasing our revenues. Many of our competitors in Mexico are large international paper producers with substantial resources at their disposal. We face substantial competition in the United States from a variety of producers of paper and packaging products. Many of our competitors in the United States are substantially larger and have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technological and marketing resources than our company. We anticipate that we may experience increasingly intense competition from international producers of paper and packaging products, both in Mexico and in the United States. There are no assurances that we will be able to avoid lower pricing as a result of competitive pressure. Lower pricing, changes made in response to competition and changes in consumer preferences may have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our operations may be adversely affected by increases in the price of raw materials. The cost of our supply of recycled fiber is directly affected by trends in international and domestic prices of old corrugated containers, or OCC, and old newsprint, or ONP, which stem from market fluctuations caused by factors beyond our control. Generally, demand and prices for finished paper vary directly with demand and prices for these raw materials. In addition, the cost of OCC in Mexico is affected both by inflation and exchange rates. We might not be able to recoup any future increases in the costs of raw materials through increases in sales prices for our products, which would adversely affect our operating income. We cannot assure that raw material prices will not increase in the future. Increases in the prices of raw materials would increase our cost of sales and adversely affect our business results. Our operations may be adversely affected by increases in the price of raw materials. Fluctuations in energy costs may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. The price and supply of energy is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including, among others, geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regional production patterns. Because our plants and facilities use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, increases in the cost of energy will increase our operating expenses and may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lack of water availability may adversely affect us. Water is an essential raw material in the paper production process. Some of our plants satisfy their water requirements through water wells licensed by the Mexican National Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua). The Mexican government has the power to limit our water consumption and the volume of water that we 9 Table of Contents may use according to our licenses, and it also has the power to revoke such licenses, in the event of our breach of the licenses’ terms. Although we believe that we are in compliance with our obligations under the licenses, we cannot assure you that the licenses will not be revoked. We also cannot be certain that the terms of any renewal of these licenses will be favorable, or that the volume of water that is currently available for use in manufacturing our products will be sufficient to satisfy our production requirements in the future. If our licenses are revoked, or the water that we may consume under our licenses is not sufficient to satisfy our production requirements, it may have an adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and operations. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental and safety requirements. We are subject to strict environmental regulations in Mexico and in the United States. Changes in environmental regulations, or changes in the policy of enforcement of existing environmental regulations, could adversely affect us. Our Mexican operations are supervised by the Mexican Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales) and our U.S. operations are supervised by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies. These agencies are responsible for the implementation of pollution control laws and regulations and could take action against us by shutting down plants, revoking licenses, imposing fines or obligating us to clean up waste that we produced, if we fail to comply with environmental regulations. It is also possible that the relevant governmental agencies could issue additional regulations, could seek a more stringent interpretation of existing regulations or could exercise stricter enforcement actions that would require us to spend additional funds on environmental matters. In addition, the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations in Mexico or the United States may cause us to spend additional funds, which may be material, in order to comply with the new laws or regulations. If we lose key members of our management team and are unable to attract other qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on the continuing contributions of our management team. Our managers have been with our company for an average of 19 years. In particular, our chief executive officer, chief operations officer, and chief financial officer have been with our company since our founding. The loss of key personnel or our potential inability to attract and retain other qualified managers could adversely affect us. Our principal stockholders own 80.4% of our shares and may take actions not in the interest of other holders of our shares. We are controlled by the Rincón family, which indirectly owns 80.4% of our outstanding voting stock. See “Item 7. Major Stockholders and Related Party Transactions.” As a result, the Rincón family has the power to elect the majority of our directors and determine the outcome of any action requiring stockholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations and the timing and payment of any future dividends. The interests of the Rincón family as stockholders may differ from the interests of other holders of our shares. If we have a catastrophic loss or unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities, we could suffer significant lost production and/or cost increases. Our manufacturing facilities and distribution warehouses may suffer catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made events. If any of these facilities were to experience natural disasters, power outages, and other catastrophic losses, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, delay or reduce shipments, reduce revenue, and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. These expenses and losses may not be adequately covered by property or business interruption insurance we maintain. Even if covered by insurance, our inability to deliver our products to customers, even on a short-term basis, may cause us to lose market share on a more permanent basis. 10 Table of Contents Adverse developments in our relationship with our employees could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 8,639 persons and approximately 66.0% of our work force was unionized. Our relationship with these unions generally has been satisfactory, but occasional work stoppages have occurred. On May 28, 2007, members of the Sindicato de Trabajadores de Fábricas de Papel Tuxtepec, S. A. de C. V., covering approximately 300 employees at our Oaxaca mill, commenced a strike. In the annual review of our collective bargaining agreement with the Sindicato de Trabajadores de Fábricas de Papel Tuxtepec, S. A. de C. V., the union presented wage demands that we did not accept. As a result, the members of this union employed at our Oaxaca mill initiated a strike and the operations of this mill were halted. On June 30, 2007, we reached an agreement with this union as a result of which we expect to resume production at our Oaxaca mill on July 3, 2007. In addition to our collective bargaining agreement with this union, we are party to collective bargaining agreements with 31 other unions in Mexico and one in the United States. We may not be able to negotiate extensions of these agreements or new agreements prior to the expiration date of these agreements. As a result, we may experience additional labor disruptions in the future. A widespread work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows if it were to last for a significant period of time. Risks Relating to Mexico Political conditions in Mexico could materially and adversely affect Mexican economic policy or business conditions and, in turn, our operations. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and us, in particular, and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including ours. Presidential and federal congressional elections were held in Mexico on July 2, 2006. Based on preliminary election results, the Federal Electoral Institute announced on July 6, 2006, that Felipe de Jesús Calderón Hinojosa of the center-right Partido Acción Nacional (the National Action Party), or PAN, obtained a plurality of the vote, with a narrow margin over Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the center-left Partido de la Revolución Democrática (the Party of the Democratic Revolution), or PRD. Claiming electoral fraud, Mr. López Obrador initiated legal challenges to the preliminary election results and commenced protests in Mexico City. On September 5, 2006, the Federal Electoral Tribunal (Tribunal Electoral del Poder Judicial de la Federación) unanimously determined in a non-appealable ruling that Mr. Calderón won the election and formally declared him to be president-elect. Mr. Calderón was sworn in as Mexico’s president on December 1, 2006, succeeding Vicente Fox, of the same party. Mr. Calderón’s term continues until November 30, 2012. Mr. López Obrador has announced that he will continue to lead demonstrations protesting the electoral process and the legitimacy of Mr. Calderón’s electoral victory. We cannot predict the impact that these protests may have on the Mexican government or on economic and business conditions in Mexico. Although the PAN won a plurality of the seats in the Mexican Congress in the election, no party succeeded in securing a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. The absence of a clear majority by a single party is likely to continue at least until the next Congressional election in July 2009. This situation, combined with the expected continued protests led by Mr. López Obrador, members of the PRD and their supporters, may result in government gridlock and political uncertainty. We cannot provide any assurances that political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Felipe Calderón’s presidency may also bring significant changes in laws, public policies and/or regulations that could adversely affect Mexico’s political and economic situations, which could adversely affect our business. Social and political instability in Mexico or other adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could adversely affect us and our ability to obtain financing. It is possible that political uncertainty may adversely affect financial markets. 11 Table of Contents Adverse economic developments in Mexico may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are a Mexican company with a substantial part of our operations and assets in Mexico. For the year ended December 31, 2006, 83.5% of our total revenues were attributable to Mexico. In the past, Mexico has experienced both prolonged periods of weak economic conditions and dramatic deteriorations in economic conditions that have had a negative impact on our company. We cannot assume that such conditions will not return or that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be significantly affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, or by the rate of inflation in Mexico, interest rates in Mexico and exchange rates for the Mexican peso. Decreases in the growth rate of the Mexican economy, periods of negative growth and/or increases in inflation or interest rates may result in lower demand for our products, lower real pricing of our products or a shift to lower margin products. Because a large percentage of our costs and expenses are fixed, we may not be able to reduce costs and expenses upon the occurrence of any of these events, and our profit margins may suffer as a result. Downturns in the Mexican economy adversely affect us. The majority of our customers are Mexican companies or individuals and a substantial part of our operations and our assets are located in Mexico. For these reasons, our operations, results and financial condition are dependent upon the level of economic activity in Mexico. Paper and packaging prices in Mexico and our revenues are highly affected by the level of economic activity in Mexico and the general purchasing power of individuals and companies. Mexican gross domestic product, or GDP, grew by 4.2% in 2004, 3.0% in 2005 and 4.8% in 2006. If the Mexican economy experiences a slow rate of growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected because our customers may reduce their consumption of our products. Depreciation of the Mexican peso relative to the dollar may impair our ability to service our debt and adversely affect our profitability. The peso has depreciated substantially against the dollar in the past and may depreciate significantly in the future. The value of the peso, based on the exchange rate calculated and published by Banco de México (the Mexican Central Bank), appreciated by 0.8% against the dollar in 2004, appreciated by 4.6% against the dollar in 2005, and depreciated by 1.7% against the dollar in 2006 . Depreciation of the peso relative to the dollar adversely affects our results of operations by increasing our dollar-based costs, including our cost of borrowing, since the peso cost of interest payments on our dollar-denominated indebtedness increases. For example, the 7.6% depreciation of the peso against the dollar that occurred in 2003 generated an exchange loss of Ps 929.0 million which was one of the factors leading to our net loss of Ps 3,788.6 million in 2003. Substantially all of our indebtedness is denominated in dollars, while a majority of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in pesos. We do not have in place hedging arrangements with respect to depreciation risk because we do not believe them to be cost effective for our company. A severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer or to convert pesos into dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our dollar-denominated indebtedness. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and since 1982 has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future, as it has done in the past. Currency fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. An increase in inflation may increase our operating costs but not our revenues. Our profitability may be adversely affected by increases in inflation. Inflation in Mexico, as measured by changes in the NCPI, as provided by the Mexican Central Bank, was 5.2% in 2004, 3.3% in 2005 and 4.1% in 2006. However, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. High levels of inflation would cause our operating costs to increase because approximately 82.8% of our cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses are payable in pesos and generally are based on short-term contracts, which may be subject 12 Table of Contents to inflationary pressures. However, the prices that we charge for our products are generally denominated in dollars or are denominated in pesos based on international reference prices denominated in dollars, which we refer to as dollar-linked, and may not increase at the same rate as our costs because the prices that we charge our customers for products are either fixed by long-term contract or effectively limited by the competitive nature of the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to pass on the increased costs of our inputs to our customers, the real prices of our products will not keep pace with inflation, and as a result, our operating income may decline. If foreign currency exchange controls and restrictions are imposed, we may not be able to service our debt in U.S. dollars, which exposes investors to foreign currency exchange risk. In the past, the Mexican economy has experienced balance of payments deficits, shortages in foreign currency reserves and other problems that have affected the availability of foreign currencies in Mexico. The Mexican government does not currently restrict or regulate the ability of persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars. However, it has done so in the past and could do so again in the future. We cannot assure you that the Mexican government will not institute a restrictive currency exchange control policy in the future. Any such restrictive foreign currency exchange control policy could prevent or restrict access to U.S. dollars and limit our ability to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Mexican Antitrust Laws May Limit Our Ability to Expand and Operate Through Acquisitions or Joint Ventures. Mexico’s federal antitrust laws and regulations may affect some of our activities, including our ability to introduce new products and services, to enter into new or complementary businesses or joint ventures and to complete acquisitions. Approval of the Comisión Federal de Competencia, or Mexican Antitrust Commission, is required for us to acquire and sell significant businesses or to enter into significant joint ventures. The Mexican Antitrust Commission may not approve any proposed future acquisition or joint venture that we may pursue. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market for the ADSs and the Common Shares is limited Shares of our common stock, without par value, or our Common Shares, are listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange, which is Mexico’s only stock exchange. There is no public market outside of Mexico for our Common Shares. The Mexican securities market is not as large or as active as securities markets in the United States and certain other developed market economies. As a result, the Mexican securities market has experienced less liquidity and more volatility than has been experienced in such other markets. Prior to July 15, 2004, the American Depositary Shrares, or ADSs, were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. On May 25, 2004, following our filing of a voluntary petition for commercial reorganization (concurso mercantil), the NYSE announced the trading of our ADSs would be suspended immediately. On July 15, 2004, our ADSs were delisted from the NYSE. Our ADSs are presently being quoted, and have been quoted since May 27, 2004, on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service, or the Pink Sheets, maintained by Pink Sheets LLC for the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. The ticker symbol CDURQ has been assigned to our ADSs for over-the-counter quotations. Shares traded on the Pink Sheets generally experience lower trading volume than those traded on the organized exchanges. The trading volume of the ADSs has decreased substantially since the NYSE delisting and the transfer of the ADSs to the Pink Sheets. In addition, companies listed on the Pink Sheets are not subject to the corporate governance standards adopted by the organized exchanges. We have no plans to list our ADSs on any organized exchange in the United States. There is no assurance that a significant trading market for the ADSs will develop on the Pink Sheets. If an active trading market does not develop, holders of ADSs may be unable to sell their ADSs. In addition, these market characteristics may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs. Future sales of our Common Shares directed by Banamex may affect the stock prices of our Common Shares and ADSs Administradora Corporativa y Mercantil, S.A. de C.V., or ACM, and a trust organized for the benefit of certain members of the Rincón family have pledged Common Shares representing approximately 28.0% of our issued and 13 Table of Contents outstanding capital stock in favor of Banco Nacional de México, S.A., or Banamex. Under the terms of the pledge agreements, Banamex has the right to cause ACM and the trust to sell all or part of the Common Shares held by ACM or the trust if the price of the Common Shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange meets or exceeds the peso equivalent of US$1.50. Banamex may exercise this right at any time whether or not an event of default under these pledge agreements has occurred. Any such sales could adversely affect the market price of the Common Shares and the ADSs. Because our accounting standards are different from those in other countries, investors may find it difficult to accurately assess our business and financial operations. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Mexican FRS. These principles differ in significant respects from U.S. GAAP as further discussed in note 23 to our audited consolidated financial statements. In particular, all Mexican companies must incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and published financial statements. The effects of inflation accounting under Mexican FRS are not eliminated in the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. For this and other reasons, the presentation of our financial statements and reported earnings may differ from that of companies in other countries. A principal objective of the securities laws of Mexico is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. Our Common Shares are listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange and, as a listed Mexican company, we are required to report quarterly financial information to the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), or CNBV. However, there may be less publicly available information about issuers of securities listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange, including our company, than would be regularly published by or about U.S. companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and may be less than, those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. Mexican laws concerning duties of directors are not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions as such actions are conducted in the United States and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits for the benefit of companies. Therefore, it may be more difficult for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a United States company. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may vote only through the depositary. Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the applicable deposit agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting. We cannot assure that holders of our shares in the form of ADSs will receive notice of shareholders meetings from our ADS depositary in sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the ADS depositary in a timely manner. Holders of ADSs may not be entitled to participate in any future preemptive rights offering, which may result in a dilution of such holders equity interest in our company. Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in our company. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are commonly referred to as preemptive rights. We may not be legally permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless (1) we file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares or (2) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time of any future capital 14 Table of Contents increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We cannot make any assurances that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering or that an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, will be available. As a result, the equity interests of holders of ADSs would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a preemptive rights offering. The price of our Common Shares and ADSs may be affected by economic developments in other emerging market countries. The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Mexican securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reaction to developments in one country may affect the securities markets and the securities of issuers in other countries, including Mexico. We cannot assure you that the market for Mexican securities will not continue to be affected negatively by events elsewhere, particularly in emerging markets, or that such developments will not have a negative impact on the market value of our Common Shares and ADSs. Investors may experience difficulties in enforcing civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 15 Table of Contents 