D. Risk Factors The Company is subject to various economic, political, social and competitive conditions. Any of the following risks, if they materialize, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Risks Related to our Company We rely heavily on our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company (“TCCC”) which has substantial influence over our business and operations Approximately 82% of our net sales in 2012 were derived from the distribution of Coca-Cola soft drinks and 15% from the distribution of other beverages bearing trademarks owned by TCCC. We produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola products through standard bottler agreements between our bottler 6 Table of Contents subsidiaries and, in each case, the local subsidiary of TCCC or, in the case of fruit juices and nectars, The Minute Maid Company, a subsidiary of TCCC. TCCC has the ability to exercise substantial influence over our business through its rights under the Bottler Agreements. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Bottler Agreements.” Under the Bottler Agreements, TCCC unilaterally sets the prices for Coca-Cola soft drink concentrates and Coca-Cola beverages (in the case of soft drinks pre-mixed by TCCC) sold to us. TCCC also monitors pricing changes we institute and has the right to review and approve our marketing, operational and advertising plans. These factors may impact our profit margins which could adversely affect our net income and results of operations. Our marketing campaigns for all Coca-Cola products are designed and controlled by TCCC. Pursuant to the Bottler Agreements, we are required to submit a business plan to TCCC for prior approval on a yearly basis. In accordance with the Bottler Agreements, TCCC may, among other things, require that we demonstrate financial ability to meet our business plan and if we are not able to demonstrate our financial capacity TCCC may terminate our rights to produce, market and distribute Coca-Cola soft drinks or other Coca-Cola beverages in territories where we have such approval. Under the Bottler Agreements, we are prohibited from producing, bottling, distributing or selling any products that could be substituted for, be confused with or be considered an imitation of, Coca-Cola soft drinks or other Coca-Cola beverages and products. We depend on TCCC to renew the Bottler Agreements which are subject to termination by TCCC in the event we default or upon expiration of their respective terms. We cannot assure you that the Bottler Agreements will be renewed or extended upon their expiration, and even if they are renewed, we cannot be certain that renewal will be granted on the same terms as those currently in effect. Termination, non-extension or non-renewal of any of the Bottler Agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, any acquisition we make of bottlers of Coca-Cola products in other countries may require, among other things, the consent of TCCC under bottler agreements to which such other bottlers are subject. We cannot assure you that TCCC will consent to any future geographic expansion of our Coca-Cola beverage business. In addition, we cannot assure you that our relationship with TCCC will not undergo significant changes in the future. If such changes do occur, our operations, and financial results and condition could be materially affected. Our business is highly competitive and subject to price competition which may adversely affect our net profits and margins The soft drink and non-alcoholic beverage businesses are highly competitive in each of our Company’s franchise territories. In our franchise territories we compete with bottlers of regional brands, including low cost “B brand” beverages and Pepsi products. In Argentina and Brazil we compete with Companhia de Bebidas das Americas, commonly referred to as AmBev, the largest brewer in Latin America and a subsidiary of InBev S.A., which sells Pepsi products, in addition to a portfolio that includes local brands with flavors such as guaraná. This competition is likely to continue, and we cannot assure you that it will not intensify in the future which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Part B. Business Overview— Soft Drink Business—Competition.” Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment could adversely affect our financial results The nonalcoholic beverages business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, including changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns, shifting consumer tastes and needs, changes in consumer lifestyles and competitive product and pricing pressures. In addition, the industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this rapidly changing environment, our net income, share of sales and volume growth could be negatively affected. 7 Table of Contents Raw material prices may be subject to U.S. dollar/local currency exchange risk and price volatility which could increase our costs of operations Numerous raw materials, including sugar and resin, are used in producing beverages and containers. We purchase raw materials from both domestic and international suppliers. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Part B. Business Overview—Soft Drink Business—Raw Materials and Supplies.” Because the prices of raw materials are fixed in U.S. dollars, we are subject to local currency risk in each of our operations. If the Chilean peso, Brazilian real or Argentine peso were to depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar, the cost of certain raw materials could rise significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that these currencies will not lose value against the U.S. dollar in the future. Additionally, some raw materials prices are subject to high volatility that could also have a material negative effect over our profitability. Instability in the supply of utility services and oil prices may adversely impact our results of operations Our operations depend on a stable supply of utilities and fuel in the countries where we operate that the Company cannot assure fluctuations in oil prices have adversely affected our cost of energy and transportation in the four countries we operate and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. We believe that the increase of energy prices will not have a significant effect over our results of operations. Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact the Company’s production costs and capacity. Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our products. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution and poor management. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as the quality of available water deteriorates, the Company may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints that could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products. The countries in which we operate, may adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the chemical content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of the Coca-Cola products. These types of requirements, if they become applicable to one or more of the Coca-Cola products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, may inhibit sales of such products. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications among the Company and our clients, suppliers and also among our subsidiaries. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Perception of risk in emerging economies may impede our access to international capital markets, hinder our ability to finance our operations and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and American Depositary Receipts. As a general rule, international investors consider Argentina and Paraguay, and to a lesser extent Chile and Brazil, to be emerging market economies. Consequently, economic conditions and the market for securities of emerging market countries influence investors’ perceptions of Chile, Brazil and Argentina and their evaluation of companies’ securities located in these countries. 8 Table of Contents During periods of heightened investor concern regarding emerging market economies, in particular Argentina and to a lesser extent Brazil and Paraguay, have experienced significant outflows of U.S. dollars. In addition, in these periods Brazilian, Argentine and Paraguayan companies have faced higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, as well as limited access to international capital markets, which have negatively affected the prices of the aforementioned countries securities. Although economic conditions are different in each of the emerging-market countries, investors’ reactions to developments in one of these countries may affect the securities of issuers in the others, including Chile. For example, adverse developments in other developing or emerging market countries may lead to decreased investor interest in investing in Chile or in the securities of Chilean companies, including securities of the Company. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, executive officers or controlling persons We are a sociedad anónima, or stock corporation, organized under the laws of Chile. Some of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons reside in Chile or outside of the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons and of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or otherwise obtained in U.S. courts. Because our assets are located outside of the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be fully collectible in the United States. If we experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our business would suffer. Strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest at any of our production facilities could impair our ability to supply products to customers, which would reduce our revenues and could expose us to customer claims. Regulatory Risks We are subject to regulation in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are water, environment, labor, taxation, health and antitrust. Regulation could also affect our ability to set prices for our products. The adoption of new laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation or enforcement thereof in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results. Further changes in current regulations may result in an increase in compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our future results or financial condition. Voluntary price restraints or statutory price controls have been imposed historically in several of the countries in which we operate. Currently there are no price controls applicable to our products in any of the territories in which we operate, other than in Argentina, were there are voluntary price restraints. There are currently no published laws or regulations imposing price controls on our products in Argentina. Nonetheless, the company has assented to the request by Argentine Government authorities to maintain prices of certain products sold through supermarkets. The imposition of these restrictions or voluntary price restraints in Argentina or other territories may have an adverse effect on our results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that government authorities in Argentina or in any country in which we operate will not impose statutory price controls, or that we will not be asked to accept further voluntary price restraints in the future. The countries in which we operate may adopt new tax laws or modify existing laws to increase taxes applicable to our business. We cannot assure you that any governmental authority in any country where we operate will not impose new taxes or increase taxes on our products in the future. The imposition of new taxes or increases in taxes on our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results. 9 Table of Contents For example, in Chile, a tax reform became effective on 2011, pursuant to which there was a temporary increase in the income tax rate from 17% to 20%, to finance the reconstruction of the country after the earthquake of 2010. Pursuant to an amendment issued on 2012, the 20% income tax rate will continue to apply through 2013 and onwards. In Brazil, the federal taxes applied on the production and sale of beverages are based on the national average retail price, calculated based on a yearly survey of each Brazilian beverage brand, combined with a fixed tax rate and a multiplier specific for each class of presentation (glass, plastic or can). On October 1, 2012, a number of changes to the federal taxes on beverages became effective. These changes include the increase of the multipliers used to calculate soft drink taxes sold in cans or glass bottles. As of effectiveness, the multiplier for cans increased from 30.0% to 31.9%, and as of October 2014, the multiplier will further be increased gradually to 38.1% by October 1, 2018. The multiplier for glass bottles increased from 35.0% to 37.2% as of effectiveness, and as of October 2014, the multiplier will further be increased gradually to 44.4% by October 1, 2018. In addition, the amendment suspended the 50% production tax benefit that had previously applied to juice-added soft drinks, and raised the rate for such beverages to the level currently applied to cola beverages. In addition to the changes in the federal sales taxes on soft drinks, there was a reduction in the federal production tax rate on concentrate, from 27.0% to 20.0%. This reduction reduces the tax credit on the purchase of concentrate. Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on economic conditions in Chile Approximately 49% of our assets and 32% of our net sales in 2012 were derived from our operations in Chile. Thus, our financial condition and results of operations depend significantly on economic conditions prevailing in Chile. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy grew at a rate of 6.1% in 2010, 6.0 % in 2011 and 5.6% in 2012. Our financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected by changes over which we have no control, including, without limitation: · the economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector; · other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile; · regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities; · inflation and governmental policies to combat inflation; · currency exchange movements; and · global and regional economic conditions. Inflation in Chile may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations The annual rates of inflation in Chile which in 2010, 2011 and 2012 were 3.0%, 4.4% and 1.5%, respectively (as measured by changes in the consumer price index and as reported by the Chilean National Institute of Statistics) could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that, under competitive pressure, we will be able to realize price increases, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, an important part of our financial debt is UF denominated, this is, linked to the inflation of the country, and therefore the value of the debt reflects any increase of the inflation in Chile. The Chilean peso is subject to depreciation and volatility which could adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and the dollar value of an investor’s return. The Chilean peso has been subject to large nominal devaluations in the past and may be 10 Table of Contents subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Based on the Observed Exchange Rates for U.S. dollars in the period from 2010 to 2012 the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar appreciated 5.62% in nominal terms. During 2012 the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar depreciated 0.5% in nominal terms. See “Item 3. Key Information-Exchange Rates.” Our Class A shares and Class B shares are traded in Chilean pesos on the Chilean Stock Exchanges. Cash distributions with respect to the shares will be received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, currently The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (as depositary for the Series A and Series B shares represented by the Series A and Series B ADRs), which will convert such Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make U.S. dollar payments in respect of the ADRs. If the value of the Chilean peso depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADRs and any distributions to be received from the depositary would be adversely affected. In addition, the depositary will incur costs (to be ultimately borne by the ADR holders) in connection with the foreign currency conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments with respect to our ADRs. Exchange controls and withholding taxes in Chile may limit repatriation of foreign investments Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents are generally subject to various exchange control regulations that govern the convertibility and repatriation of the investments and earnings. The ADRs are governed by an Agreement among us, the depositary and the Central Bank of Chile (the “Foreign Investment Agreement”). The Foreign Investment Agreement guarantees the depositary and the ADR holders access to Chile’s Formal Exchange Market, permits the depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the ADR holders and permits the holders of ADRs to repatriate the proceeds of the sale of shares withdrawn from the ADR facility, thereby enabling them to acquire currencies necessary to repatriate investments in the shares and earnings there from. Pursuant to current Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank of Chile, and there are judicial precedents (which are not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be voided by future legislative changes. Dividends received by ADR holders of are paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the depositary and are subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35%, subject to credits in certain cases as described under “Item 10. Additional Considerations —Tax Considerations Relating to Equity Securities”. We cannot assure you that additional restrictions applicable to ADR holders , the disposition of the shares underlying the ADRs and the convertibility and/or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes in the Foreign Investment Agreement or Chilean law, the depositary was unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends or other distributions, if any, in Chile and in Chilean pesos. Risks Relating to Brazil Our business is dependent to some extent on economic conditions in Brazil Approximately 21% of our assets and 38% of our consolidated net sales in 2012 were derived from our operations in Brazil. Because demand for soft drinks and beverage products is usually correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the relevant local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country in which the market is located, our financial condition and results of operations to a considerable extent are dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing in Brazil. According to data available to general public, the Brazilian economy grew at a rate of 7.5% in 2010, 2.7% in 2011 and 1.0% in 2012. 11 Table of Contents The Brazilian government exercises influence over the Brazilian economy, which together with historically volatile Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our shares and ADRs Historically, the Brazilian government has changed monetary, credit, tariff, and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. Such government actions have included wage and price controls as well as other measures such as freezing bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and imposing limits on imports and exports. Changes in policy and other political and economic developments could adversely affect the Brazilian economy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that present economic conditions and policies intended to promote a sustainable economic development will continue. Although inflation in Brazil has stabilized in recent years, increased inflation may adversely affect the operations of Andina Brazil which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations As measured by the Brazilian Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor or INPC, inflation in Brazil was 6.5%, 6.1% and 6.2% in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Increased inflation rates may result in lower consumer purchasing power on behalf of consumers and lower sales volume for Andina Brazil. We cannot assure you that levels of inflation in Brazil will not increase in future years and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inflationary pressures may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect the results of operations of Andina Brazil and consequently our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our shares and ADSs. The Brazilian real is subject to depreciation and volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations During 2010, the real apreciated 4.3% against the U.S. dollar compared to the prior year period. Nevertheless in 2011 and 2012 it depreciated 12.6% and 8.9%, which had an impact in the financial condition and results of operations of our Brazilian subsidiary. Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar may increase the cost of servicing foreign currency-denominated debt that we may incur in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depreciation of the real can create inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect our results of operations. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and combined with other macroeconomic aspects, may prompt recessionary government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our revenues, distributions and dividends, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares. On the other hand, the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to the deterioration of Brazil’s public accounts and balance of payments, as well as to lower economic growth from exports. The Brazilian government imposes certain restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad which could affect the timing and amount of any dividend or other payment we receive Brazilian law guarantees foreign shareholders of Brazilian companies the right to repatriate their invested capital and to receive all dividends in foreign currency provided that their investment is registered with Brazil’s Central Bank. We registered our investment in Andina Brazil with the Brazilian Central Bank on October 19, 1995. Although dividend payments related to profits obtained subsequent to January 1, 1996 are not subject to income tax, after the sum of repatriated capital and invested capital exceeds the investment amount registered with the Brazilian Central Bank, repatriated capital is subject to a capital gains tax of 15%. Under current Chilean tax law, we will realize a tax credit in respect of all Brazilian taxes paid relating to Andina Brazil. There can be no assurance that the Brazilian government will not impose additional restrictions or modify existing regulations that would have an adverse effect on an investor’s ability to repatriate funds from Brazil nor can there be any assurance of the timing or duration of such restrictions, if imposed in the future. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Argentina Our business is dependent to some extent on economic conditions in Argentina Approximately 13% of our assets and 27% of our net sales in 2012 were derived from our operations in Argentina. Because demand for soft drinks and beverage products usually is correlated to economic conditions prevailing in the local market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country, the financial condition and results of operations of our franchise in Argentina are, to a considerable extent, dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. GDP growth in Argentina was 9.2% in 2010, 8.3% in 2011 and 2.0% in 2012. Facing the international financial crisis, the public sector did not default and carried out payments using the reserves of Argentina’s Central bank and loans from Banco de la Nación Argentina, generating new and significant macroeconomic policy challenges. Although Argentina managed to roll with the punches of a recessive year and an international crisis without upsetting the main financial variables, we cannot assure that economic conditions in Argentina will continue improving or that our operations will continue experiencing good results. Political and economic instability may recur which could have a material adverse effect on our Argentine operations and on our financial condition and results of operations. In the period from 1998 through 2003, Argentina experienced acute economic problems that culminated with the restructuring of substantially all of Argentina’s sovereign bond indebtedness. A succession of presidents were inaugurated during this crisis period and various states of emergency were declared that suspended civil liberties and instituted restrictions on transfers of funds abroad and foreign exchange controls, among other measures. Argentina’s GDP contracted 10.9% in 2002. Beginning 2003, Argentine GDP began to recover and from 2004 to 2008 recorded an average rate of growth of 8.4%. In the political environment, legislative elections carried out in June of 2009 were a misfortune for the government’s political party losing the majority in both houses. This new political scenario in Argentina could make the executive power need to arrive at a consensus with the opposition regarding rules and regulations in order for them to be approved by the legislative power. The macroeconomic condition in Argentina has been characterized by: · increased inflation which has been slightly controlled by price control; · deeper state of intervention in the economy; · fiscal deficit ; and · strong salary pressures. The Argentine government continues to face significant exposure to litigation from holders of its defaulted debt that did not participate in the Argentine government’s exchange offer. The Argentine government could impose certain restrictions on currency conversions and remittances abroad which could affect the timing and amount of any dividends or other payment we receive from our Argentine franchise Under current Argentine law, we may declare and distribute dividends with respect to our Argentine subsidiary and our Argentine banks may lawfully process payments of those dividends to us and other non-resident shareholders. Our declaration and distribution of dividends is subject to certain statutory requirements and must be consistent with our audited financial statements. The processing of payment of dividends by our Argentine banks is subject to Argentine Central Bank regulations, including verification of our Argentine subsidiary’s compliance with foreign debt and direct investment disclosure obligations. In addition to statutory and administrative rules affecting our Argentine subsidiary’s payment of dividends, during 2012 the Argentine Government imposed discretionary restrictions on Argentine companies as part of a policy to limit outbound transfers of U.S. dollars. These de facto restrictions essentially halted dividend payments to non-resident shareholders. The Argentine Government has begun to relax these restrictions. Nonetheless, we cannot give any assurances that we will be able to cause our Argentine subsidiary to 13 Table of Contents distribute dividends to its non-resident shareholders now or in the foreseeable future, despite otherwise meeting all statutory and regulatory requirements for payment. Argentina’s government may impose certain restrictions on imports which could have an impact in our operation. Argentina’s government could eventually limit our access to foreign exchange to pay for imports, and also could restrict raw materials or machinery imports, which are necessary for our operation in the country. Inflation in Argentina may adversely affect our operations which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations Argentina has experienced high levels of inflation in recent decades, resulting in large devaluations of its currency. Argentina’s historically high rates of inflation resulted mainly from its lack of control over fiscal policy and the money supply. The official annual rates of inflation (published by INDEC-Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos- National Statistics and Census Institute as measured by changes in the consumer price index) between 2010, 2011 and 2012 were, 10.9%, 9.5% and 10.8%, respectively for each year. High levels of inflation in Argentina could adversely affect the Argentine economy and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the last years the accuracy of the national accounts of Argentina was questioned by some international public organizations. The Argentine peso is subject to depreciation and volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations During 2012, the exchange rate in Argentina underwent a depreciation of 13.8%. The Argentine government’s economic policies and any future devaluation of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine peso has been subject to large devaluations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. We cannot assure you that the policies to be implemented by the Argentine government in the future will stabilize the value of the Argentine peso against foreign currencies Risks Related to Paraguay Our business is dependent to some extent on economic conditions in Paraguay Approximately 17% of our assets and 3% of our net sales in 2012 were derived from our operations in Paraguay. Since the demand for soft drinks and drinks is generally related to the economic conditions prevailing in the local market which, in turn, depend on the macroeconomic and political conditions of the country, our financial situation and our operations results could be adversely affected by changes in these factors over which we have no control. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for 2012 reveals a contraction of the real economy of around -1.2% compared to the previous year, result it is interrupted two years of a very good behavior of the economic activity (4% in 2011 and 15% in 2010), The economic performance in 2012 was influenced by a predominant factor that motivated a declination in economic activity: the effects of the drought that had a negative impact in the agricultural industry for 2011/2012, mainly on soybeans, corn and sunflower crops, in addition to the outbreak of foot and mouth disease detected in the last months of 2011 that resulted in the closing of markets for Paraguayan meat and has had an effect in the reduction of the levels of slaughtering during the first half of this year which, however, was reversed during the second half of the year, experiencing a significant upturn with the return of more than 20 markets for Paraguayan meat. 14 Table of Contents Inflation in Paraguay may adversely affect our operations which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations Inflation during 2012 was 4%, below 4,9% in 2011 and 7,2% in 2010. This annual inflationary result implies that the total inflation has, for the sixth consecutive year, a one-digit figure and is below the top of the target range (7,5%). An increase in the inflation could decrease the purchasing power of our consumers, which could have an effect in our volume growth and therefore, could have an impact in our sales income. We can’t assure you that the Paraguayan inflation will continue to be under the current levels. The Paraguayan Guaraní is subject to depreciation and volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations The exchange rate is free and fluctuant and the BCP participate in the exchange market in order to smooth abrupt oscillations. In 2012, the local currency appreciated in 3.0%. Nevertheless, it was very variable during the year. It was appreciated during the first quarter to then become strongly depreciated (around 11%), as a result of the lower export earnings to then be stabilized towards the last quarter of the year, closing 2012 with an appreciation of around 3%. An important depreciation of the local currency could adversely affect our financial situation and financial results, because 25% of our total costs of raw materials and supplies are in dollars, as well as other expenses such as professional fees and maintenance costs. Risk Factors Relating to the ADRs and Common Stock Preemptive rights may be unavailable to ADR holders According to the Ley de Sociedades Anónimas No. 18.046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (collectively, the “Chilean Companies Law”), whenever we issue new shares for cash, we are required to grant preemptive rights to holders of our shares (including shares represented by ADRs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADRs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to such rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is available. Under the procedure established by the Central Bank of Chile, the foreign investment agreement of a Chilean company with an existing ADR program will become subject to an amendment (which will also be deemed to incorporate all laws and regulations applicable to international offerings in effect as of the date of the amendment) that will extend the benefits of such contract to new shares issued pursuant to a preemptive rights offering to existing ADR owners and to other persons residing and domiciled outside of Chile that exercise preemptive rights, upon request to the Central Bank of Chile. We intend to evaluate at the time of any rights offering the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement as well as the indirect benefits to us of enabling United States ADR holders to exercise preemptive rights and any other factors that we consider appropriate at the time, and then make a decision as to whether to file such registration statement. We cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed. To the extent ADR holders are unable to exercise such rights because a registration statement has not been filed, the depositary will attempt to sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds thereof if a secondary market for such rights exists and a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. If such rights cannot be sold, 15 Table of Contents they will expire and ADR holders will not realize any value from the grant of such preemptive rights. In any such case, such holder’s equity interest in the Company would be diluted proportionately. Shareholders’ rights are less well defined in Chile than in other jurisdictions, including the United States Under the United States federal securities laws, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain rules that apply to domestic United States issuers with equity securities registered under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the proxy solicitation rules, the rules requiring disclosure of share ownership by directors, officers and certain shareholders. We are also exempt from certain of the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., including the requirements concerning independent directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by the laws of Chile and our estatutos or bylaws, which function not only as our bylaws but also as our articles of incorporation. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Pursuant to Law No. 19,705, enacted in December 2000, the controlling shareholders of an open stock corporation can only sell their controlling shares via a tender offer issued to all shareholders in which the bidder would have to buy all the offered shares up to the percentage determined by it, when the price paid is substantially higher than the market price (that is, when the price paid was higher than the average market price of a period starting 90 days before the proposed transaction and ending 30 days before such proposed transaction, plus 10%). The market for our shares may be volatile and illiquid The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago (the “Santiago Stock Exchange”), which is Chile’s principal securities exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$313,456 million at December 31, 2012 and an average monthly trading volume of approximately US$3,870 million for 2012. The lack of liquidity owing, in part, to the relatively small size of the Chilean securities markets may have a material adverse effect on the trading prices of our shares. Because the market for our ADRs depends, in part, on investors’ perception of the value of our underlying shares, this lack of liquidity for our shares in Chile may have a significant effect on the trading prices of our ADRs. 