Item 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. We are currently experiencing adverse economic conditions in some of our market areas, which affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and are thus disproportionately impacted. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do materialize in the future. The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and may be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 90% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including the downturn in the real estate market in our markets will adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Currently, the markets we operate in are experiencing such an economic downturn, and if it continues, our operations will be further adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $711.2 million of our loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. Approximately $243.5 million of these speculative loans are for residential developments and approximately $467.7 million are for commercial developments. These land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment and declining real estate values, we expect that in 2008, the nonperforming loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio will increase substantially and these nonperforming loans will result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and nonperforming assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and national publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2007, our nonperforming assets increased significantly to $79.1 million, or 3.58%, of loans receivable plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets have experienced, and continue to experience, a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, which we expect to occur in the near-term, this will lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing a sharp increase in delinquencies and nonperforming assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, significant provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio will likely occur. We occasionally purchase non-recourse loan participations from other banks based on information provided by the selling bank. From time to time, we purchase loan participations from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse to the selling bank. This may occur during times when we are experiencing excess liquidity in an effort to improve our profitability. When we purchase loan participations we apply the same underwriting standards as we would to loans that we directly originate and seek to purchase only loans that would satisfy these standards. We are less likely to be familiar with the borrower, and may rely to some extent on information provided to us by the selling bank and on the selling bank’s administration of the loan relationship. We therefore have less control over, and may incur more risk with respect to, loan participations that we purchase from selling banks. 17 Table of Contents Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate adjustments, as well as by competition in our primary market area. As a financial institution, our earnings are significantly dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve recently has taken action on five occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 225 basis points since September 2007, which likely will reduce our net interest for the foreseeable future. This reduction in net interest income likely will be exacerbated by the high level of competition that we face in our markets, which requires us to offer more attractive interest rates to borrowers, both on loans and deposits, and to rely upon out of market funding sources. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and/or the price of our securities. Additionally, in 2008, we expect to have continued margin pressure given these interest rate reductions, along with elevated levels of nonperforming assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. Our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. As a result of a difficult real estate market, we have increased our allowance from $22.3 million as of December 31, 2006 to $31.7 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to increase our allowance in 2008; however, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies would have a negative effect on our operating results. 18 Table of Contents We may need to raise capital in the future in addition to the capital raised in our rights offering, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be expensive. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We will likely need to raise additional capital to support our business as a result of our losses. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on favorable terms. Furthermore, following a recent exam by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in January 2008, our Board of Directors passed a board resolution that our company will not incur additional indebtedness at the holding company without prior written consent from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. We can give no assurance that we will receive such consent from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, which could hinder our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities or convertible debt securities. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate our business could be materially impaired. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate (CRE) is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 78% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans. The banking regulators have begun giving CRE lending greater scrutiny and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. Our loan portfolio has commercial and industrial loans that include risks that may be greater than the risks related to residential loans. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio was $161.9 million at December 31, 2007 and comprised 7.4% of loans receivable. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risk for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. If we are unable to increase our share of deposits in our market, we may accept out of market and brokered deposits, the costs of which may be higher than expected. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive service area. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out 19 Table of Contents of market or brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $854.4 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 37% of our total deposits. At times, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits exceeds the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, incurring debt, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. In response to an exam by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in January 2008, our Board of Directors passed a board resolution that we will not incur additional indebtedness at the holding company or declare or pay any dividends to our shareholders without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta approved our 2008 first quarter dividend. However, we can give no assurance that we will receive such consent for dividends or indebtedness from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in the future. Our business also is subject to laws, rules and regulations regarding the disclosure of non-public information about our customers to non-affiliated third parties. Our operations on the Internet are not currently subject to direct regulation by any government agency in the United States beyond regulations applicable to businesses generally. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals currently under consideration by the federal, state and local governmental organizations may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of our business on the Internet, including: user privacy, taxation, content, access charges, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. The adoption of new laws or a change in the application of existing laws may decrease the use of the Internet, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Additionally, we cannot predict the effect of any legislation that may be passed at the state or federal level in response to the recent deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our financial condition and results of operations are reported in accordance with GAAP. While not impacting economic results, future changes in accounting principles issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could impact our earnings as reported under GAAP. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Complying with these standards, rules and regulations may impose administrative costs and burdens on us. Additionally, political conditions could impact our earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could impact the business and economic conditions in which we operate. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance 20 Table of Contents companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 18.25% of our outstanding common stock as of February 29, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. We may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance that such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that, integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future merger or acquisition, our integration efforts will be successful or that our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 