Item 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Turmoil in the real estate markets and the tightening of credit have adversely affected the financial services industry and will likely continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, there were well-publicized developments in the credit, liquidity and real estate markets, beginning with a decline in the sub-prime mortgage lending market, which later extended to the markets for collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed securities and the lending markets generally. This dramatic decline in the real estate markets, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, which continued throughout 2008 and into 2009, has negatively affected the credit performance of loans secured by real estate and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by banks and other financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many banks and financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with other financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing credit to borrowers, including other financial institutions, which, in turn, has led to a global credit crisis. This market turmoil and credit crisis have resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations and likely will continue to result in credit losses and write-downs in the future. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by the U.S. Department of Treasury (the Treasury) in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to spend up to $700 billion to purchase equity in financial institutions, and purchase mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Geithner announced a new stimulus plan, the Financial Stability Plan, which is intended, among other things, to create a public-private investment fund used to purchase distressed assets, create a consumer and business lending initiative, provide further capital assistance to financial institutions, stem foreclosures and restructure mortgages. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, the 17 Table of Contents Financial Stability Plan or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the FDIC, the Financial Stability Plan or other governmental programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions likely will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced that as a part of the EESA, it will offer to qualifying U.S. banking organizations the opportunity to issue and sell preferred stock to the Treasury on what may be considered attractive terms under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In conjunction with the purchase of preferred stock, the Treasury will receive warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the preferred stock investment. Participating financial institutions will be required to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Company has applied to participate but its participation will be subject to our regulator’s recommendation, the Treasury’s approval, the execution of definitive agreements and standard closing conditions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s application will be approved or that the Company will receive funds under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, if the Company’s application was to be approved and it participates in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Company will issue preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the Treasury, which will have a dilutive effect on the Company’s current shareholders. We expect to be subject to a formal enforcement action with regulatory authorities, and, when it occurs, we expect such action to place significant restrictions on our operations. Under applicable laws, the Federal Reserve Board, as our primary federal regulator, the FDIC as the Banks’ deposit insurer, and the Georgia Department, as the Banks’ chartering authority, have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on us and the Banks if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which we must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. We could be subject to the issuance of a formal enforcement action and our regulatory authorities could issue a cease and desist order, primarily due to the high level of nonperforming assets of the Banks and the resulting impact on our financial condition. These actions generally require certain corrective steps, impose limits on activities, prescribe lending parameters and require additional capital to be raised. In many cases, policies must be revised by the institution and submitted to the regulatory authority for approval within time frames prescribed by the regulatory authorities. Failure to adhere to the requirements of the actions, once issued, can result in more severe restrictions. Generally, these enforcement actions can be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accountants in their audit report for fiscal year 2008 have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations depend on our ability to meet our existing debt obligations and the financing or other capital required to do so may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. The potential lack of sources of liquidity raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. 18 Table of Contents We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies, and future legislation or changes in laws and regulations may affect our competitive position and financial outlook. We are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Given the current economic crisis, Congress is likely to consider additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties that may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and cause damage to our reputation. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. The NASDAQ may not extend the temporary relief for stocks trading below $1 per share. In October 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market temporarily suspended its listing requirement that requires companies to have a minimum bid price of $1 per share through April 20, 2009. NASDAQ rules classify a security as “deficient” if it has a closing bid price of less than $1 per share for thirty consecutive business days. Once deficient, issuers have an automatic 180-day period to regain compliance by having a closing bid price of at least $1 per share for 10 consecutive business days, and can receive an additional 180 days if all other listing requirements are met. If we do not meet this standard and the NASDAQ Stock Market does not continue its suspension of this listing requirement, liquidity in our stock could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reimbursement of the FDIC under its “cross-guarantee” provisions. The “cross-guarantee” provisions of the FDIC require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) as a result of the default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in danger of default. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF. The FDIC’s claim for damages is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institutions. The reimbursement of the FDIC under its “cross-guarantee” provisions could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. 19 Table of Contents An inability to improve our regulatory capital position could adversely affect our operations and future prospects. Our success as a financial institution is dependent on our ability to raise sufficient capital or reduce our assets to improve our regulatory capital position. At December 31, 2008, four of our subsidiary Banks were classified as “undercapitalized,” which restricts our operations. As a result of our capital levels, there are several restrictions that our regulators can place on us: (1) our loans to one borrower limit may be reduced, which affects the size of the loans that we can originate and also requires us to sell, participate, or refuse to renew loans that exceed our lower loans to one borrower limit, any of which could negatively impact our earnings; (2) we cannot renew, accept or rollover brokered deposits; (3) we must obtain prior regulatory approval to undertake any branch expansion activities; (4) we will pay higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which will reduce our earnings; (5) we will be subject to growth restrictions and limits on capital distributions; (6) the undercapitalized Banks are prohibited from making capital distributions to us; and (7) we will be required to file a capital restoration plan with the FDIC and Georgia Department. If we are unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital, our financial condition and future prospects will be materially and adversely affected. The unprecedented deterioration of the real estate market and our national economy likely will result in further increases in our non-performing assets and allowance for loan losses, and make it more difficult for us to recover our losses with respect to defaulted loans and will continue to adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Recessionary conditions in the broader economy have and could further adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in our market area. This has and could further, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers and prompt us to further tighten our underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in our customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand in certain residential real estate markets. The impact of the deteriorating economy and real estate markets on our financial results could include continued high levels of problem credits, provisions for credit losses and expenses associated with loan collection efforts. We may also be required to replace deposits with higher-cost sources of funds and we may be unable to produce growth in earning assets. Noninterest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. We regularly reassess our loan portfolio, the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses. In light of these market conditions, our allowance for loan losses increased to 3.00% at December 31, 2008 from 1.45% of loans at December 31, 2007. We made a provision for loan losses of approximately $128.1 million and charged-off approximately $100.3 million in loans for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was significantly higher than in previous periods. While financial institutions generally do not charge-off impairment on loans until foreclosure, we believe we have taken an aggressive approach and charged-off the balances based upon the current downturn in the economy and real estate market. The increase in the allowance for loan losses reflects increases in and downgrades to criticized or classified loans and non-performing assets (which is comprised of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned by us as a result of foreclosures), primarily in the residential tract development and construction category that are experiencing slower than projected sales and/or increases in loan to value ratios arising from declines in residential home and land prices in our lending markets. We will likely experience further increases in classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future, as well as related increases in loan charge-offs, as the deterioration in the credit and real estate markets causes borrowers to default. In addition, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, will be negatively affected by the recent downturn in the real estate market, and therefore may result in our being unable to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower 20 Table of Contents defaults on a loan. Furthermore, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs based on judgments different from those of our management. A further decline in the overall economy, any further increase in our non-performing assets, any increase in loan charge-offs, any further increase in our allowance for loan losses or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flow and the price of our securities. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to be unfavorable, our business may not succeed. We are currently experiencing economic conditions in our market areas, which negatively affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and are thus disproportionately impacted. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do materialize in the future. Our liquidity has come under pressure and funding to provide liquidity may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. In recent periods, a number of factors have placed stress on our liquidity, including increases in our non-performing assets, increases in our allowance for loan losses, increased competition for deposits in our primary market areas, prohibition on accepting brokered deposits, a freeze on Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances and decreases in interest rates. These factors contribute to compression of our net interest margin and our net income. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we have historically relied as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, FHLB advances, Fed Funds advances and brokered deposits. If any of these sources are not available to us, we likely will have a severe liquidity deficiency. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and periods of severe disruption that in recent months have reached unprecedented levels. Given the dramatic deterioration of the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. For example, the cost of brokered deposits may continue to exceed the cost of deposits of similar maturity in our local market areas, making them unattractive, but necessary, sources of funding. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.07 billion in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 44% of our total deposits. Also, financial institutions may be unwilling to extend credit to banks because of concerns about the banking industry and the economy generally; and, given the continued downturn in the economy, there may not be a market for raising equity capital. If funding continues to be available on a limited basis, or only on unfavorable terms, then our liquidity, net interest margin and net income will be materially and adversely affected. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. Through 2007, we offered land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers, but we no longer offer these loans. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $993.9 million, or 21 Table of Contents 50.2%, of our loan portfolio represented land, land acquisition and development and construction loans. These land acquisition and development and construction loans are generally considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans, and banking regulators have determined that we have an excessive concentration in such loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units or rentals of the commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. Because of declines in real estate values in our market areas, particularly the metropolitan Atlanta and north Florida areas, this portion of our loan portfolio has been severely impaired. As of December 31, 2008, 20% of this portion of our loan portfolio was non-performing. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, if economic conditions and real estate markets do not improve, our losses will likely exceed our reserves, which will adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We occasionally purchase non-recourse loan participations from other banks based in part on information provided by the selling bank. From time to time, we purchase loan participations from other banks in the ordinary course of business, usually without recourse to the selling bank. When we purchase loan participations we apply the same underwriting standards as we would to loans that we directly originate and seek to purchase only loans that would satisfy these standards. However, we are less likely to be familiar with the borrower and may rely to some extent on information provided to us by the selling bank and on the selling bank’s administration of the loan relationship. We therefore have less control over, and may incur more risk with respect to, loan participations that we purchase from selling banks. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, we will incur additional losses. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan, the underwriting standards, and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. Our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors and the current economic climate. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been significantly and adversely affected by the deteriorating economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and 22 Table of Contents may be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 89% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. As a result of a difficult real estate market, we have increased our allowance from $31.7 million as of December 31, 2007 to $59.4 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to increase our allowance in 2009; however, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies would have a negative effect on our operating results. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate (CRE) is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 73% of our loan portfolio consisted of CRE loans, which includes land, land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers. The banking regulators give CRE lending greater scrutiny and have required us to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending exposures. Additionally the banking regulators have determined that our exposure to CRE is excessive and could impose further restrictions on us that would adversely affect our results of operation, financial condition and future prospects. Our loan portfolio has commercial and industrial loans that include risks that may be greater than the risks related to residential loans. Many analysts and economists are predicting that the commercial and industrial loans could be the next market to see significant deterioration. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio was $157.8 million at December 31, 2008 and comprised 8.0% of loans receivable. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would adversely affect our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risk for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. If our borrowers on commercial and industrial loans fail to pay, as many analysts predict, then our results or operations likely will be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents As a result of the downturn in the real estate market, we have experienced more elevated legal related costs and expenses associated with resolving troubled loans, including participated loans, than we would normally experience during more stable economic times. These additional legal costs and expenses are expected to continue as we work to resolve our troubled credits and along with any adverse outcomes from litigation, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition From time to time, we are involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business to resolve problem credits. Given the current market downturn in real estate and the general economy, we are experiencing an increase in the volume of this ordinary course litigation, and as such we have experienced an increase in legal related costs and expenses, which include foreclosed property expenses, fees and expenses of legal counsel and other professional fees. We have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits where co-lenders in loan participations are seeking damages against us. Based on current information, we believe that we have valid defenses to these litigation claims but we cannot provide assurance that we will ultimately be successful in our defense, and regardless of our success, we expect to incur increased legal fees and costs to defend these litigation claims and in defending against litigation, we may be required to pay damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely our funding costs and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 19.57% of our outstanding common stock as of February 27, 2009. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 