1A. Risk Factors. The general economic and/or business conditions affecting the automotive industry may adversely impact the Company. The automotive industry in the United States as a whole is facing a downturn in economic and business conditions. The number of automotive parts suppliers filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code has increased during 2005 and many other companies in the industry have announced significant restructuring plans in order to remain viable. Both GM and Ford are trying to return their North American automotive operations to profitability through a combination of strict cost control, capacity rationalization (plant closings) and the acceleration of new product/technology introductions. Unless they can stem their ongoing market share declines, further production cuts will have a ripple effect throughout the supply chain and impact the profitability of those suppliers most dependent on these domestic manufacturers, including the Company. The Company is dependent on Ford, GM and DaimlerChrysler as its largest customers and on selected vehicle programs. Revenues from Ford, GM, and DaimlerChrysler represented approximately 30%, 13%, and 11% respectively, of the Company’s revenues in 2005. Also, the Company’s typical contracts with its customers provide for supplying that customer’s requirements for a particular model, rather than manufacturing a specific quantity of components. These contracts range from one year to the life of the platform or model, usually three to ten years, and do not require the purchase by the customer of any minimum number of components. Therefore, the loss of any one of these customers, or a significant reduction in demand for vehicles for which the Company produces components and assemblies, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s existing and future revenues and net income. The Company may be adversely impacted by the inability to reduce costs. There is substantial, continuing pressure from the major OEMs to reduce costs, including the cost of products and services purchased from outside suppliers. Repeated spikes in steel prices have become a significant risk factor for many companies in the automotive industry. Suppliers and automakers alike have had difficulty passing on these increased costs to consumers in the current highly competitive environment. Oil and gas prices have reached record highs and the oil price spikes that continued into 2006 started to have a measurable impact on vehicle purchase behavior. The Company’s inability to pass through increased materials pricing may result in lower profit margins for the Company. In addition, the Company’s business is very capital intensive. Therefore, profitability is dependent, in part, on the Company’s ability to spread fixed production costs over increasing product sales. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions and any reduction in customer demand for automobiles, the Company’s profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s customers often require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, the Company may not be able to achieve price increases sufficient in amounts to cover the costs of these changes. The Company is subject to certain risks associated with its foreign operations. The Company has significant international operations, specifically in Europe, Asia, and South America. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including: • difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates may have an adverse affect on operations in those countries; and • the Company may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries. 13 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could have a significant effect on the Company’s international operations and, as a result, overall revenues and profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on revenues and financial results. The Company generates a significant portion of its revenues and incurs a significant portion of its expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent the Company is unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the Company reported sales and earnings from international operations will be reduced because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The Company’s business may be disrupted by work stoppages and other labor matters. Many OEMs and their suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by OEMs or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where the Company’s products are included in assembled vehicles. Also, a number of large Tier I suppliers to the automotive industry have filed for Chapter 11 protection. These actions create greater uncertainty as to the potential for work stoppages by unionized work forces. In the event that one or more of the Company’s customers or suppliers experiences a material work stoppage, such a work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, a significant number of the Company’s employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The Company has been in negotiations with the unions representing current and retired employees since October 2005 seeking concessions from the bargaining units in the wage rate structure of its membership as well as the benefits offered by the Company. Health insurance coverage for employees and retirees has resulted in significant cost increases for vehicle manufacturers and suppliers for the past several years and puts domestic auto makers and suppliers at a significant disadvantage with their foreign based competitors. While the Company has reached consensual outcomes with certain of its retirees, negotiations with its active unions are ongoing. As part of its Chapter 11 process, the Company sought the approval of the Bankruptcy Court to reject its union contracts. The Court has not issued a ruling while the parties continue to negotiate; however, the union members have approved a strike vote in the event the Bankruptcy Court rules in the Company’s favor. While the Company has not experienced any work stoppages since its inception in 1993, a strike or slow-down by one of the Company’s unions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to obtain new program awards. The automotive component supply industry remains competitive. Despite a number of Chapter 11 filings, some of the Company’s competitors are companies, or divisions or subsidiaries of companies, that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company. In addition, with respect to certain products, the Company competes with divisions of OEM customers. The Company’s products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of these other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenues and profitability. The Company principally competes for new business both at the beginning of the development of new models and upon the redesign of existing models by major customers. New model development generally begins two to five years prior to the marketing of such models to the public. The failure to obtain new business on new models or to retain or increase business on redesigned existing models, could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. In addition, as a result of the relatively long lead times required for many of the Company’s complex structural components, it may be difficult in the short term for the Company to obtain new sales to replace any unexpected decline in the sale of existing products. Also, the Company may incur significant expense in preparing to meet anticipated customer requirements which may not be recovered for various reasons, including fluctuation in the anticipated volume of production from new and planned supply programs. 14 Table of Contents The Company may incur material losses as a result of product liability and warranty and recall claims. Many of the Company’s products are critical to the structural integrity of a vehicle. As such, the Company faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of its products to perform to specifications results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any Company designed products are, or are alleged to be, defective, the Company may be required to participate in a recall involving those products. Each OEM has its own policy regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more vehicle assembly functions, OEMs are increasingly looking to suppliers for contribution when faced with product recalls and product liability or warranty claims. Accordingly, the Company may be adversely impacted by product recalls and product liability or warranty claims. The Company is subject to government regulations, including environmental regulations, and any changes in current regulations may adversely impact the Company. The automotive industry is regulated by various government bodies and constituencies. The implementation of or changes in the laws, regulations or policies governing the automotive industry that could negatively affect the automotive components supply industry may adversely impact the Company. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may harm the Company’s businesses. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect the Company’s businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, senior management of the Company will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Company’s reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of the Company’s businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that the Company’s customers and suppliers will lose confidence in the Company’s ability to successfully reorganize their businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the Company will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require the Company to seek additional financing, either as part of the DIP credit facility or otherwise, in order to service their debt and other obligations. It may not be possible for the Company to obtain additional financing during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If the Company were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, the Company’s chances of successfully reorganizing its businesses may be seriously jeopardized. The Company may not be able to obtain confirmation of its Chapter 11 plan. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a viable entity, the Company believes that it must develop, and obtain requisite court and creditor approval of, a viable Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”). This process requires the Company to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to the Plan, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of the Plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. The Company may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against the Company may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the Plan “does not unfairly discriminate” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to any non-accepting classes, (ii) confirmation of the Plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting holders of claims within a particular class under the Plan will not be less than the value of distributions such holders would receive if the Company was liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The 15 Table of Contents Bankruptcy Court may determine that the Plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether the Company would be able to reorganize its businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against the Company ultimately would receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that the Company would have to liquidate its assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if the Company was to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 