Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many important factors that have affected, and in the future could affect Hudson's business including, but not limited to, the factors discussed below, which should be reviewed carefully together with the other information contained in this report. Some of the factors are beyond Hudson's control and future trends are difficult to predict. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. Our existing credit facility, which currently expires in June 2011, is secured by substantially all of our assets and contains formulas that limit the amount of our borrowings under the facility. Moreover, the terms of our credit facility also include negative covenants that, among other things, may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we violate any of these loan covenants our indebtedness under the credit facility would become immediately due and payable, and the bank could foreclose on its security, which could materially adversely affect our business and future financial condition and could require us to curtail or otherwise cease our existing operations. We may need additional financing to satisfy our future capital requirements, which may not be readily available to us. Our capital requirements have been and may be significant in the future. In the future, we may incur additional expenses in the development and implementation of our operations. Due to fluctuations in the price, demand and availability of new refrigerants, our existing credit facility that expires in June 2011 may not in the future be sufficient to provide all of the capital that we need to acquire and manage our inventories of new refrigerant. As a result, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in order to develop our RefrigerantSide® Services business our refrigerant sales business and our other businesses. We have no current arrangements with respect to, or sources of, additional financing other than our existing credit facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew this credit facility or obtain any additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain financing, if and when needed, could materially adversel y affect our business and future financial condition and could require us to curtail or otherwise cease our existing operations. Page 8 The current economic downturn could cause a severe disruption in our operations. Our business could be negatively impacted by the current economic downturn. If this downturn is prolonged or worsens, there could be several severely negative implications to our business that may exacerbate many of the risk factors we identified in this report but not limited, to the following: Liquidity The economic downturn and the associated credit crisis could continue or worsen and reduce liquidity and this could have a negative impact on financial institutions and the global financial system, which could, in turn, have a negative impact on us. We may not be able to borrow additional funds under any existing credit facility or may not be able to expand our borrowings under any existing facility if participating lenders become insolvent or their liquidity is limited or impaired. In addition, we may not be able to renew our existing credit facility at the conclusion of its current term. Demand The economic downturn has resulted in severe job losses and lower business to business and consumer confidence, which could cause a decrease in demand and/or price for our product and services. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability. The refrigerant recovery and reclamation industry involves potentially significant risks of statutory and common law liability for environmental damage and personal injury. We, and in certain instances, our officers, directors and employees, may be subject to claims arising from our on-site or off-site services, including the improper release, spillage, misuse or mishandling of refrigerants classified as hazardous or non-hazardous substances or materials. We may be strictly liable for damages, which could be substantial, regardless of whether we exercised due care and complied with all relevant laws and regulations. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover potential claims, and adequate levels of insurance coverage may not be available in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured claim against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business and financial condition is substantially dependent on the sale and continued environmental regulation of refrigerants. Our business and prospects are largely dependent upon continued regulation of the use and disposition of refrigerants. Changes in government regulations relating to the emission of refrigerants into the atmosphere could have a material adverse effect on us. Failure by government authorities to otherwise continue to enforce existing regulations or significant relaxation of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect demand for our services and products. Our business is subject to significant regulatory compliance burdens. The refrigerant reclamation and management business is subject to extensive, stringent and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies, including the EPA, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the United States Department of Transportation. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all material regulations relating to our material business operations, amendments to existing statutes and regulations or adoption of new statutes and regulations which affect the marketing and sale of refrigerant could require us to continually alter our methods of operation and/or discontinue the sale of certain of our products resulting in costs to us that could be substantial. We may not be able, for financial or other reasons, to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permit requirements, particularly as we seek to enter into new geographic markets. Our failure to compl y with applicable laws, rules or regulations or permit requirements could subject us to civil remedies, including substantial fines, penalties and injunctions, as well as possible criminal sanctions, which would, if of significant magnitude, materially adversely impact our operations and future financial condition. As a result of competition, and the strength of some of our competitors in the market, we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our services and products are highly competitive. We compete with numerous regional and national companies which provide refrigerant recovery and reclamation services, as well as companies which market and deal in new and reclaimed alternative refrigerants, including certain of our suppliers, some of which possess greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. We also compete with numerous manufacturers of refrigerant recovery and reclamation equipment. Certain of these competitors have established reputations for success in the service of air conditioning and refrigeration systems. We may not be able to compete successfully, particularly as we seek to enter into new markets. Page 9 A number of factors could negatively impact the price and/or availability of refrigerants, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial condition. Refrigerant sales continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues. Therefore, our business is substantially dependent on the availability of both new and used refrigerants in large quantities, which may be affected by several factors including commercial production and consumption limitations imposed by the Act and legislative limitations and ban on HCFC refrigerants; the ban on production of CFC based refrigerants under the Act; the proposed legislation which, if enacted, could impose limitations on production and consumption of HFC refrigerants; introduction of new refrigerants and air conditioning and refrigeration equipment; price competition resulting from additional market entrants; and changes in government regulation on the use and production of refrigerants. We do not maintain firm agreements with any of our suppliers of refrigerants. Sufficient amounts of new and/or used refrigerants may not be available to us in the future, or may not be available on commerci ally reasonable terms. Additionally, we may be subject to price fluctuations, periodic delays or shortages of new and/or used refrigerants. Our failure to obtain and resell sufficient quantities of virgin refrigerants, or to obtain, reclaim and resell sufficient quantities of used refrigerants would have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and results of operations. Adverse weather conditions could adversely impact our financial results. Weather is a significant factor in determining market demand for the refrigerants sold by us, and to a lesser extent, our RefrigerantSide® Services. Unusually cooler temperatures in the spring and summer in the markets served by us, tends to depress demand for, and price of, refrigerants we sell. Protracted periods of cooler than normal spring and summer weather could result in a substantial reduction in our sales which could adversely affect our financial position as well as our results of operations. Issues relating to potential climate change could have an impact on our business. Refrigerants are considered to be strong greenhouse gases that are believed to contribute to global warming and are now subject to various state and federal regulations relating to the production, importation and emissions of refrigerants. In addition, federal legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, would impose limitations on the production and importation of certain virgin HFC refrigerants and current and future climate change or related legislation and/or regulations, may impose additional compliance burdens on us and on our customers and suppliers which could potentially result in increase administrative costs, decreased demand in the marketplace for our products, and/or increased costs for our supplies and products. The loss of key management personnel would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts of our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. The loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We have the ability to designate and issue preferred stock, which may have rights, preferences and privileges greater than Hudson's common stock and which could impede a subsequent change in control of us. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of these shares, without further shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any additional preferred stock that may be issued by us in the future. Our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of its voting stock, thereby delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. If our common stock were delisted from NASDAQ it would be subject to "penny stock" rules which could negatively impact its liquidity and our shareholders' ability to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must comply with numerous NASDAQ MarketPlace rules in order to continue the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that we can continue to meet the rules required to maintain the NASDAQ listing of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, the market liquidity of our common stock may be severely limited. Our management effectively control our affairs. Currently, our officers and directors collectively own approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our officers and directors are in a position to significantly effect, and potentially fully control us and the election of our directors. There is no provision for cumulative voting for our directors. Page 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 