Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis report and the following discussion of risk factors contain forward-looking statements as discussed on page 2 of this report. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks relating to our financial positionThe global recession, credit crisis and concerns regarding the Eurozone have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations; we cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover or how long any recovery may last. A failure to achieve prompt and lasting recoveries will continue to adversely affect our results of operations.The results of our operations depend heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by prevailing general and regional economic conditions. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system since the beginning of 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries across Central and Eastern Europe, some of which are still contending with recession. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in them, particularly in Bulgaria and Romania. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising industries in our markets, leading our customers to continue to spend less on advertising then at the peak period in 2008 as they modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase advertising. This has negatively impacted our financial position, results of operations and cash flows since 2008. While GDP and private consumption returned to growth in 2011 in most of our operating countries, they weakened again during 2012 due to continuing concerns regarding Europe's sovereign debt crisis, the stability of the Eurozone, the sustainability of the Euro as a common currency and the growth prospects of major emerging market and developed market economies globally. As a result, the economic conditions of our operating countries remain challenging. Recent economic events related to the continuing sovereign debt crisis in several European Union countries have highlighted issues relating to the short‑ and long-term stability of the Euro as a single currency. Though the European Union has created external funding and stability mechanisms to provide liquidity and financial assistance to Eurozone member states and financial institutions, there can be no assurance that the recent market disruptions in Europe related to sovereign debt, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not continue, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. The departure of a country from the Euro or the dissolution of the Euro by its members could negatively impact our business as well as cause significant volatility and disruption in the global economy. Any of these developments would have a significant negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We face severe liquidity constraints and may require additional external sources of capital for our debt service obligations and to fund our operations, which may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms.As at December 31, 2012, we had US$ 140.4 million of cash and cash equivalents; cash used in operating activities was US$ 30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The demand for television advertising declined across our markets and a recovery in the fourth quarter of 2012 that we expected earlier in 2012 did not occur because advertisers did not honor previous spending commitments. As a result, our outlook for future periods became less certain and we made significant downward revisions in our estimates of the cash flows that our operations will generate in future periods. In addition, our cash flow may be further negatively impacted if payments for foreign programming, including to a related party supplier, cannot be rescheduled or deferred. In the absence of a sustained recovery in the television advertising markets in our region, we expect that our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be insufficient to cover operating expenses and interest payments and we will need other capital resources to fund our debt service and other obligations as they become due. Under our indentures we are able to borrow only limited additional funds and therefore we are exploring other options to improve our liquidity, including new equity financings, asset sales and the continuing renegotiation of payment obligations with a number of major suppliers. In addition, we are evaluating further measures to optimize or restructure our cost base. There can be no assurances that our overall financial performance will improve, that the steps outlined above will be successful in improving our liquidity or that there will not be other unanticipated developments that have a negative impact on our liquidity. If there is not a sustained recovery in the television advertising market over the medium-term, if we are unable to secure additional equity financing or sell assets on acceptable terms, or we are unable to renegotiate payment terms with key suppliers, we may be unable to meet our debt service obligations and generally fund our operations some time beyond the next twelve months. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot generate strong advertising sales.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on our television channels. In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that may affect our advertising sales are the pricing of advertising time as well as audience ratings, changes in programming strategy, changes in audience preferences, our channels' technical reach, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, competition from other broadcasters and operators of other media platforms, seasonal trends in the advertising market, increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and shifts in population and other demographics. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, civil or military conflicts or general political instability may create further economic uncertainty that reduces advertising spending. The reduction in advertising spending in our markets has had a negative effect on the prices at which we can sell television advertising because of pressure to reduce prices from advertisers and discounting by competitors. Advertising spending may also be affected by the expansion of distribution platforms and changing preferences in how and when people view content and the accompanying advertising. Our ability to maintain audience ratings and to generate gross rating points, the main unit of sales, also depends on our maintaining investments in television programming and productions at a sufficient level to continue to attract audiences. Significant or sustained reductions in investments in programming that attracts such audiences or other operating costs in response to reduced advertising spending in our markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our television viewing levels. Reduced advertising spending, discounting of the price of television advertising in our markets and competition for ratings from broadcasters seeking to attract similar audiences have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our advertising sales. The significant decline in advertising sales has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.12IndexWe may not be successful in our attempts to diversify and enhance our revenues.We are focused on creating additional revenue streams as well as enhancing revenues generated from broadcast advertising, which is how we currently generate the substantial majority of our revenues. These include increasing subscriber fees from cable and direct-to-home ("DTH") operators for carriage of our channels and subscription revenues from our subscription TV and video-on-demand ("VOD") offerings. In addition, we have implemented changes to our broadcast advertising sales policies that are designed to boost revenues and to support increases in advertising prices across our markets. The implementation of certain of these strategies, such as changes to carriage fee arrangements and changes to our sales policies, may be regarded as disruptive by our clients or platform operators and initially have a negative impact on our financial position if they withdraw advertising or refuse to carry our channels. If we are ineffective in diversifying our revenue streams, our profitability will continue to be dependent primarily on advertising revenues from our broadcast operations, which places additional pressures on our ability to generate advertising revenues. There can be no assurances that any of these initiatives will be successful and this may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our debt service obligations may restrict our ability to fund our operations.We and certain of our subsidiaries have significant debt service obligations under the Senior Notes and Convertible Notes. As a result of our debt service obligations and covenants contained in the related indentures, we and our restricted subsidiaries are restricted under the Senior Notes and Convertible Notes in the manner in which our business is conducted, including but not limited to our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities and other corporate requirements. In addition, the covenants contained in the indentures governing the Senior Notes restrict the manner and extent to which we can provide financial support to certain subsidiaries. Furthermore, we may have a proportionally higher level of debt than our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Servicing our high level of debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, economic conditions and our industry.A further downgrading of our ratings may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing.Our corporate credit is currently rated as B3 with a negative outlook and the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes are rated Ba3 by Moody's Investors Services. Our corporate credit is currently rated CCC+ with a negative outlook, the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes are rated CCC and the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes are rated CCC+ by Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect each agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations as they become due. Credit rating agencies now monitor companies very closely and have made liquidity and the key ratios associated with it, such as gross leverage ratio, a particular priority. We may not be able to operate with sufficient liquidity in the next twelve months to maintain our current ratings if market conditions in our operating territories do not improve, if we do not raise additional equity or if we are not able to complete other measures to optimize costs. Our repurchase in 2012 of a portion of our outstanding indebtedness through equity financings from existing shareholders resulted in an improvement of our balance sheet and the refinancing of certain indebtedness has improved our maturity profile. However, we still may be subject to potential further downgrades if we fail to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. In the event our debt or corporate credit ratings are lowered by the ratings agencies, it will be more difficult for us to refinance indebtedness or raise new indebtedness that may be permitted under our indentures and we will have to pay higher interest rates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If our goodwill, indefinite‑lived intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite‑lived intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of our goodwill, indefinite‑lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates in our markets, reduced expected future cash flows and increased country risk premium as a result of political uncertainty and a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We recorded an impairment charge of US$ 522.5 million in respect of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets in the Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Romania and Slovak Republic Broadcast reporting units during the three months ended December 31, 2012 as a result of significant downward revisions in our estimates of the cash flows our operations will generate in future periods. We consider available current information when calculating our impairment charge. If there are indicators of impairment, our long-term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. Changes to our business could result in future costs or charges.We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including economic conditions, industry changes and technological developments, as reflected by the change in our reporting segments starting January 1, 2013 (see Part II, Item 8, Note 18 "Segment Data"). In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, business or assets in order to optimize our cost structure and capture operating efficiencies. Such events could result in restructuring and other charges and the incurrence of additional costs or may require significant management time to implement. If any such charges are material, they could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.A default by us in connection with our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business.Pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and the Convertible Notes, we pledged all of the shares in CME NV and substantially all of the shares of CME BV, which together own substantially all of the interests in our operating subsidiaries, as security for the notes. In addition, pursuant to the indenture governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, we pledged our ownership interests in CET 21 and substantially all of CET 21's assets, including shares of CME Slovak Holdings B.V. and ownership interests in Media Pro Pictures s.r.o. If we or our restricted subsidiaries were to default under the terms of any of the indentures governing such notes, the secured parties under such indentures would have the ability to sell all or a portion of the assets pledged to them in order to pay amounts outstanding under such debt instruments. In addition, in the event of a default under the indenture governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, the secured parties thereunder can enforce against assets that are not part of the collateral for the other Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes, including the shares and business of CET 21. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.13IndexWe may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness and may not be able to obtain favorable refinancing terms.We face the risk that our indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness being refinanced. This risk is exacerbated by the current volatility in the capital markets, which has resulted in tightened lending requirements and in some cases the inability to refinance indebtedness. In the third quarter of 2012, we successfully completed transactions to repurchase approximately US$184.8 million aggregate principal amount of certain of our outstanding indebtedness and refinanced the 2013 Convertible Notes and the 2014 Floating Rate Notes. Nonetheless, we still have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including approximately US$ 261.0 million of 2015 Convertible Notes that mature on November 15, 2015.In addition, following the termination of the Irrevocable Voting Deed and Proxy dated May 18, 2009 among an affiliate of Time Warner, Ronald Lauder and certain of his affiliates and us (the “voting agreement”), which is expected to occur in May 2013, Time Warner would no longer be subject to an agreement not to own more than 49.9% of our voting securities. The acquisition by Time Warner (or any other person or group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) of more than 50% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock would constitute a fundamental change under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. If such a fundamental change occurs, we would need to repurchase or refinance the 2015 Convertible Notes in the event the holders thereof exercise their repurchase option under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. If we were unable to repurchase or refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.Our reporting currency is the dollar but our consolidated revenues and costs, including programming rights expenses and interest on debt, are divided across a range of currencies. The Senior Notes are denominated in euros. We have not attempted to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the principal amount of these notes. Furthermore, continuing instability in the Eurozone may increase our exposure to currency fluctuations. We may continue to experience significant gains and losses on the translation of our revenues or the Senior Notes into dollars due to movements in exchange rates between the euro (which has suffered significant depreciation against the U.S. dollar in recent months), the currencies of our local operations and the U.S. dollar. We may experience significant gains and losses on the translation of our revenues or the Senior Notes into U.S. dollars due to movements in exchange rates between the euro, applicable local currency and the U.S. dollar, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Risks relating to our operationsProgramming content may become more expensive to produce or acquire or we may not be able to develop or acquire content that is attractive to our audiences.Television programming is one of the most significant components of our operating costs. The ability of programming to generate advertising revenues depends substantially on our ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program depends on several tangible and intangible factors, including the impact of competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior, and general economic conditions. Furthermore, the cost of acquiring content attractive to our viewers, such as feature films and popular television series and formats, has increased as a result of greater competition from existing and new television broadcasting channels at the same time as our revenues from advertising has declined. Our expenditures in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to the implementation of new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs, changes in audience tastes in our markets in favor of locally produced content, and competition for talent. In addition, we typically acquire syndicated programming rights under multi-year commitments before we can predict whether such programming will perform well in our markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be necessary to increase our expenditures by investing in additional programming, subject to the availability of adequate financial resources, as well as to write down the value of such underperforming programming. Any increase in programming costs or write‑downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. Television competes with various other media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising, for advertising spending. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media in our markets. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that changes in the regulatory environment or improvements in technology will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media and distribution could result in a decline in the appeal of television as an advertising medium generally or of our channels specifically. A decline in television advertising spending as a component of total advertising spending in any period or in specific markets would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our businesses are vulnerable to significant changes in technology that could adversely affect us.The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analog terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital terrestrial television ("DTT") broadcasting, direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences and the methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content. This has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect our ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies penetrate our markets. New business initiatives of ours to expand our distribution capabilities to adapt to changing patterns of consumption of content may not be embraced by consumers and therefore may not develop into profitable business models. New technologies that enable viewers to choose when, how, where and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could impact our businesses. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments allow for an increase in the number of channels that may be broadcast in our markets and expanded programming offerings that may be offered to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching additional channels could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. Our television broadcasting operations may be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to ensure necessary access to new broadcasting technologies or distribution systems. In addition, an expansion in competition due to technological innovation may increase competition for audiences and advertising revenue 14Indexas well as the competitive demand for programming. Any requirement for substantial further investment to address competition that arises on account of technological innovations in broadcasting may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Piracy of our content may decrease revenues we can earn from our content and adversely impact our business and profitability. Piracy of our content poses significant challenges in our markets. Technological developments, including digital copying, file compressing, the use of international proxies and the growing penetration of high bandwidth internet connections, have made it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats. Furthermore, there are a growing number of video streaming sites, increasing the threat of online transmission of our content without consent. The proliferation of such sites broadcasting pirated content could result in a reduction of revenues that we receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, including revenues generated by Voyo, our subscription VOD service and other revenue streams. Protection of our intellectual property is dependent on the manner in which applicable intellectual property laws in the countries in which we operate are construed and enforced. We seek to limit the threat of content piracy. However, detecting and policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is often difficult and remedies may be limited under applicable law. Steps we take may not prevent the infringement by third parties. There can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce our rights and protect our intellectual property will be successful in preventing piracy, which limits our ability to generate revenues from our content. We rely on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could harm our business or our reputation. We make extensive use of network and information systems and other technologies, included those related to our internal network management as well as our New Media operations. These systems are central to many of our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, malicious activities or other security breaches could result in a disruption or degradation of our services, the loss of information or the improper disclosure of personal data. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively impact our business by requiring us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or by harming our reputation. In addition, improper disclosure of personal data could subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data in the countries in which we operate. The development and maintenance of systems to prevent these events from occurring requires ongoing monitoring and updating as efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As technologies evolve, we will need to expend additional resources to protect our technology and information systems, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.We may seek to make acquisitions of other channels, networks, content providers or other companies in the future, and we may fail to acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them or we may fail to identify suitable targets.Our business and operations have grown in part through acquisitions. While we continue to explore acquisition opportunities, prospective competitors may have greater financial resources than we do, and increased competition for target broadcasters or other media businesses may reduce the number of potential acquisitions that are available on acceptable terms.If we acquire new businesses, their integration into our existing operations poses significant risks, including:•additional demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations;•increased overall operating complexity of our businesses, requiring greater personnel and other resources;•difficulties in expanding beyond our core expertise in the event that we acquire ancillary businesses;•significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; and•in the event that debt is incurred to finance acquisitions, additional debt service costs related thereto as well as limitations that may arise under the indentures governing the Senior Notes.To manage our growth effectively and achieve pre-acquisition performance objectives, we would need to integrate new acquisitions into our existing businesses, implement financial and management controls and produce required financial statements for those operations. The integration of new businesses may also be difficult due to differing cultures, languages or management styles, poor internal controls and an inability to establish control over cash flows. If any acquisition and integration is not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues, which could harm our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected cash flows and profit margins.The transition to digital television broadcasting may require substantial additional investments and the effectiveness of such investments is uncertain.Countries in which we have operations are migrating from analog terrestrial broadcasting to DTT broadcasting. Each country has independent plans for its digital switchover with its own timeframe, operating model and regulatory and investment regime. Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia have completed the analog switch-off. The migration to digital broadcasting in Bulgaria is expected to be completed in September 2013 and in Romania, which is in the initial stages of migration, completion is expected by 2015. We cannot predict the full effect of the migration to DTT broadcasting on existing operations or the take up of DTT broadcasting by their audiences. We also cannot predict whether all of our operations will receive rights or licenses to broadcast any existing or additional channels if additional rights or licenses to such broadcasting should be required in those countries that have not completed the digital switchover. Our operations may be required to make substantial investment and commit substantial other resources to implement DTT broadcasting and secure distribution in advance of knowing the take up of DTT broadcasting versus competing alternative distribution systems, such as direct-to-home platforms. We may not have access to resources sufficient to make such investments when required.We may not be aware of all related party transactions, which may involve risks of conflicts of interest that result in transactions being concluded on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arm's‑length transactions.In certain of our markets, the officers, general directors or other members of the management of our operating companies have other business interests, including interests in television and other media‑related companies. We may not be aware of all business interests or relationships that exist with respect to entities with which our operating companies enter into transactions. Transactions with companies, whether or not we are aware of any business relationship between our employees and third parties, may present conflicts of interest which may in turn result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arm's‑length. It is likely that we and our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. In the event there are transactions with persons who subsequently are determined to be related parties, we may be required to make additional disclosure and, if such contracts are material, may not be in compliance with certain 15Indexcovenants under the indentures governing the Senior Notes. Any related party transaction that is entered into on terms that are not arm's‑length may result in a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation.We require broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets in order to conduct our broadcasting business. Our broadcasting licenses for our operations in Slovenia and the Slovak Republic are valid for indefinite time periods and our remaining broadcasting licenses expire at various times through 2026. While we expect that our material licenses and authorizations will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate our business, we cannot guarantee that this will occur or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or with applications filed in respect thereto may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of any other broadcasting or operating licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our operations are in developing markets where there is a risk of economic uncertainty, biased treatment and loss of business.Our revenue‑generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe where we must comply with various regulatory obligations related to our businesses, including in respect of broadcasting and competition. We believe that we are in compliance with all our regulatory obligations in all material respects but it is not possible to predict how regulatory authorities or courts that have been or may be asked to resolve any allegations or claims will decide such issues. Our markets pose different risks to those posed by investments in more developed markets and the impact in our markets of unforeseen circumstances on economic, political or social life is greater. The economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, standards of corporate governance and business practices of countries in this region continue to develop. Government policies may be subject to significant adjustments, especially in the event of a change in leadership. This may result in social or political instability or disruptions, potential political influence on the media, inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before judicial or other regulatory authorities and other general business risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include exchange controls, higher tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of our markets and the influence of local political parties also present a potential for biased treatment of us before regulators or courts in the event of disputes involving our investments. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the loss of one or more of our business operations. The loss of a material business would have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the media industry and have made important contributions to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Enforcement RightsWe are a Bermuda company and enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult.CME Ltd. is a Bermuda company. Substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States. In addition, several of our directors and all of our officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, investors may be unable to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (i) judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws or (ii) in original actions brought in such countries, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States federal and state securities laws.Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action in Bermuda, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.Risks Relating to our Common StockOur share price may be adversely affected by sales of unrestricted shares or future issuances of our shares.As at February 20, 2013, we had a total of 2.2 million options to purchase Class A common stock outstanding, 0.1 million options to purchase shares of Class B common stock outstanding and 584,000 nonvested restricted stock units outstanding. In 2007 we issued 1,275,227 unregistered shares of Class A common stock to Igor Kolomoisky. Adrian Sarbu beneficially owns 2,443,867 unregistered shares of Class A common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 850,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock. An affiliate of Apax Partners holds 3,168,566 unrestricted shares of Class A common stock. Ronald Lauder beneficially owns 3,016,936 unrestricted shares of Class A common stock and an additional 2,000,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock for which he has registration rights. An affiliate of Time Warner holds 32,898,443 unregistered shares of Class A common stock and one share of Series A convertible preferred stock, which is convertible into 11,211,449 shares of Class A common stock. Time Warner has registration rights with respect to a significant majority of its shares of Class A 16Indexcommon stock. The 2015 Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our Class A common stock and mature on November 15, 2015. Prior to August 15, 2014, the 2015 Convertible Notes will be convertible following certain events and from that date at any time to November 15, 2015. Furthermore, we are exploring the possibility of new equity financings to improve our liquidity. We cannot predict what effect, if any, an issuance of shares of our Class A common stock, or the entry into trading of previously issued unregistered or restricted shares of Class A common stock, will have on the market price of our shares. If more shares of common stock are issued, the economic interests of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected. The interests of our controlling shareholders may conflict with the interests of other shareholders.Ronald Lauder, our founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors, owns or has voting control over approximately 56.3% of our outstanding common stock and an affiliate of Time Warner holds a 49.9% economic interest in us. The majority of Mr. Lauder's voting power is attributable to the voting agreement whereby Mr. Lauder is generally entitled to vote all 32,898,443 shares of Class A common stock and one share of Series A convertible preferred stock (which is entitled to one vote for each of the 11,211,449 shares of Class A common stock into which it is convertible) beneficially owned by Time Warner, as well as any other of our shares acquired by Time Warner during the term of the voting agreement. On the termination of the voting agreement, which is expected to occur in May 2013, Time Warner will be able to exercise the full voting power of its 49.9% interest in us. Prior to the expiration of the voting agreement, Mr. Lauder is, and after its expiration Time Warner will be, in a position to exercise significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors or certain transactions. Under Bermuda law, there is no takeover code or similar legislation requiring an acquirer of a certain percentage of CME common stock to tender for the remaining publically held shares. In certain circumstances, the interests of Mr. Lauder or Time Warner, as controlling shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of minority shareholders.The price of our Class A common stock is likely to remain volatile.The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to our Operations” as well as the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, license renewals, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the European Union, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, the volume of trading in shares of our Class A common stock, future issuances of shares of our Class A common stock and investors' and securities analysts' perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.17Index