Item 1A. Risk Factors This report and risk factors below contain forward-looking statements as discussed on page 4. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to our Financial Position The global recession and credit crisis has adversely affected our financial position and results of operations; we cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover, and a failure to recover promptly will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. The results of our operations rely heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by prevailing general and regional economic conditions. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system in 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries across Central and Eastern Europe, many of which are in recession. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in them, particularly in Ukraine, Bulgaria and Romania. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising industries in our markets, leading our customers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising. This has resulted in a decrease in demand for advertising airtime and a severe, negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. While there are some indications that the decline in economic growth rates in our operating countries has reached the bottom, we cannot predict when a recovery will occur, or the sustainability of such recovery, in our markets. The absence of a recovery or a weak recovery will continue to adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Page 27 Table of Contents Our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot generate strong advertising sales. We generate almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on our television channels. In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that may affect our advertising sales are the pricing of our advertising time as well as audience ratings, changes in our programming strategy, changes in audience preferences, our channels’ technical reach, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, competition from other broadcasters and operators of other media platforms, seasonal trends in the advertising market, increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and shifts in population and other demographics. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, civil or military conflicts or general political instability may create further economic uncertainty that reduces advertising spending. A reduction in advertising spending in our markets has had a negative effect on the prices at which we sell television advertising because of pressure to reduce prices from advertisers and discounting by competitors, particularly in Ukraine. Reduced advertising spending, discounting of the price of television advertising in our markets and competition from broadcasters seeking to attract similar audiences have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our advertising sales. Our ability to maintain audience ratings and to generate gross rating points, our main unit of sales, depends in part on our maintaining investments in television programming and productions at a sufficient level to continue to attract these audiences. Significant or sustained reductions in investments in programming, production or other operating costs in response to reduced advertising spending in our markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our television viewing levels. The significant decline in advertising sales has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our debt service obligations relating to our Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and the Erste Facility (each as defined below) may restrict our ability to fund our operations. We currently have significant debt service obligations under our 11.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the “2009 Fixed Rate Notes”), our Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Floating Rate Notes” and together with the 2009 Fixed Rate Notes, the “Senior Notes”) and our 3.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2013 (the “Convertible Notes”). In addition, CME and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries serve as guarantors under the up to CZK 3.0 billion (approximately US$ 163.3 million) facility agreement among our wholly-owned subsidiary CET 21, Erste Group Bank A.G. as arranger, Ceska Sporitelna, a.s. as facility agent and security agent and certain other financial institutions (the “Erste Facility”). As a result of these obligations we are restricted in the manner in which our business is conducted, including but not limited to our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities and other corporate requirements (see Part II, Item 8, Note 6, “Senior Debt” and Note 11, “Credit Facilities and Obligations under Capital Leases”). In addition, the covenants contained in the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Erste Facility restrict the manner and extent to which we can provide financial support to our Unrestricted Subsidiaries (see Part II, Item 8, Note 23, “Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries”). Furthermore, we may have a proportionally higher level of debt than our competitors, which can put us at a competitive disadvantage. Servicing our high level of debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, economic conditions and our industry. Page 28 Table of Contents We may require additional external sources of capital for future debt service and other obligations, which may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. Our ability to meet our future capital requirements, including the acquisition of the bTV group, is based on our expected cash resources, including our debt facilities, as well as estimates of future operating results. These factors are derived from a variety of assumptions, such as those regarding general economic, competitive and regulatory conditions, which may prove to be inaccurate. If economic conditions in our markets do not improve, if our assumptions regarding future operating results prove to be inaccurate, if our costs increase due to competitive pressures or other unanticipated developments, if the sale of our Ukrainian operations does not successfully complete (see Part II, Item 8, Note 24, “Subsequent Events”) or if our investment plans change, we may need to obtain additional financing to fund our operations or acquisitions, and to repay or refinance the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes and the Erste Facility. Furthermore, our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to cover operating expenses and interest payments, and if our cash flow together with other capital resources, including proceeds received from offerings of debt or equity and the disposition of assets, were to prove insufficient to fund our debt service obligations as they became due, we would face substantial liquidity problems. The tightness of the credit markets and the impact of a slow economic recovery on our operations may constrain our ability to obtain financing, whether through public or private debt or equity offerings, proceeds from the sale of assets or other financing arrangements. It is not possible to ensure that additional debt financings will be available within the limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the indenture governing the 2009 Fixed Rate Notes (the “2009 Indenture”) and the indenture governing the Floating Rate Notes (the “2007 Indenture”). Moreover, such financings, if available at all, may not be available on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain financing as it is needed would mean that we may be obliged to reduce or delay capital or other material expenditures at our channels or dispose of material assets or businesses. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or obtain it on acceptable terms, this would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to refinance our existing debt financings or obtain favorable refinancing terms. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financings, including the risk that our cash flow will continue to be insufficient to meet required payments of interest on debt and the risk that indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness. This risk is exacerbated by the current volatility in the capital markets, which has resulted in tightened lending requirements and in some cases the inability to refinance indebtedness. If we were unable to refinance indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrading of our ratings may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing. Following a downgrade on November 11, 2009, our Senior Notes and our Convertible Notes are rated B- and our corporate credit is rated B- with a negative outlook by S&P, and, following a downgrade on August 19, 2009, both our Floating Rate Notes and our corporate credit are rated as B2 with a negative outlook by Moody’s. These ratings reflect each agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations as they become due. Credit rating agencies have begun to monitor companies much more closely and have made liquidity, and the key ratios associated with it, such as gross leverage ratio, a particular priority. We intend to operate with sufficient liquidity to maintain our current ratings. However, this is dependent on a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, such as the completion of the sale of our Ukraine operations. If we fail to maintain adequate levels of liquidity we may be downgraded again in the course of 2010 (see Part II, item 7, Section VI (d) “Cash Outlook”). In the event our debt or corporate credit ratings are lowered by the ratings agencies, it will be more difficult for us to raise additional indebtedness and we will have to pay higher interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Page 29 Table of Contents If more of our goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired we may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings. We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rate in our markets, future cash flows and a decline in our stock price and market capitalization. We recorded impairment charges of US$ 81.8 million in 2009 in respect of our Bulgaria operations and US$ 336.8 million in 2008 in respect of our Bulgaria and Ukraine operations. While the amount by which the fair value of our reporting units exceeds their carrying values had recovered beginning in the second quarter of 2009, these excesses are still at historically low levels. We performed our annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of 2009, which did not result in any further impairment charges. We consider all current information in respect of calculating our impairment charge however, if there are further indicators of impairment and our long term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate further, or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our reporting currency is the dollar but our consolidated revenues and costs, including programming rights expenses and interest on debt, are divided across a range of currencies. The strengthening of the dollar against these currencies has had an adverse impact on reported earnings in 2009 compared to the prior year. In addition, the Senior Notes are denominated in Euros and the Erste Facility is denominated in Czech korunas. We have not attempted to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the principal amount of the Senior Notes or the Erste Facility. We may continue to experience significant gains and losses on the translation of our revenues or the Senior Notes and the Erste Facility into dollars due to movements in exchange rates between the Euro, the currencies of our local operations and the dollar. The failure to successfully complete the sale of our Ukraine operations and the acquisition of the bTV group would reduce the resources available to our other operations. In January 2010 we entered into a agreement with Igor Kolomoisky, a shareholder and member of our Board of Directors, and a company controlled by him in which we agreed to sell our entire interests in our Ukraine operations (the “Ukraine Transaction”). In connection with entering into the agreement, our previous agreement with Mr. Kolomoisky relating to his investment in our Ukraine operations was terminated (see Part II, Item 8, Note 22, “Related Party Transactions”). In February 2010 we entered into an agreement with News Corp to acquire the bTV group in Bulgaria (see Part II, Item 8, Note 24, “Subsequent Events”). Closing of the each of the transactions is subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals. However, in the event that these transactions do not close as expected, it would be necessary to continue to fund our channels in Ukraine or develop a revised operating strategy for Bulgaria. This would reduce the amounts that would have become available to fund our other operations and other planned capital expenditures, as well as divert management time from other sectors of our business (see Part II, Item 7, Section VI (d) “Cash Outlook”). A default on our obligations under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes or the Erste Facility could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business. Pursuant to the terms of the 2007 Indenture, 2009 Indenture and the indenture governing the Convertible Notes (the “2008 Indenture”), we have pledged shares in our two principal subsidiary holding companies, which own substantially all of our interests in our operating companies, including the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group, Pro TV, Markiza and Pro Plus. As security for the Erste Facility, CET 21 has pledged substantially all of its assets and trade receivables and has pledged its ownership interests in its material holding and operating subsidiaries. If we were to default under the terms of any of the 2007 Indenture, the 2008 Indenture, the 2009 Indenture or the Erste Facility, the trustees under the 2007 Indenture, the 2008 Indenture and the 2009 Indenture and the security agent under the Erste Facility would have the ability to sell all or a portion of the assets pledged to it in order to pay amounts outstanding under such debt instruments. Page 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Operations Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium. We generate almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. Television competes with various other media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising, for advertising spending. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media in our markets. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that changes in the regulatory environment or improvements in technology will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media and distribution could result in a decline in the appeal of television as an advertising medium generally or of our channels specifically. A decline in television advertising spending in any period or in specific markets would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may seek to make acquisitions of other channels, networks, content providers or other companies in the future, and we may fail to acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them or we may fail to identify suitable targets. Our business and operations have grown in part through acquisition, including the acquisition of Media Pro Entertainment in December 2009 (see Part II, Item 8, Note 3, “Acquistions and Disposals”). In addition, in February 2010 we entered into an agreement to acquire the bTV group in Bulgaria (see Part II, Item 8, Note 24, “Subsequent Events”). We continue to explore acquisition opportunities, however, prospective competitors may have greater financial resources than we do, and increased competition for target broadcasters may reduce the number of potential acquisitions that are available on acceptable terms. As we succeed in acquiring new businesses, their integration into our existing operations pose significant risks, including: • additional demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; • increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; • difficulties of expanding beyond our core expertise in the event that we acquire ancillary businesses; • significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; and • in the event that debt is incurred to finance acquisitions, additional debt service costs related thereto as well as limitations that may arise under to the indentures governing our Senior Notes. To manage our growth effectively and achieve pre-acquisition performance objectives, we will need to integrate Media Pro Entertainment and the bTV group, as well as any other new acquisitions into our existing businesses, implement financial and management controls and produce required financial statements in those operations. The integration of new businesses may also be difficult due to differing cultures, languages or management styles, poor internal controls and an inability to establish control over cash flows. If any acquisition and integration is not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues, which could harm our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected cash flows and profit margins. Page 31 Table of Contents Our programming content may become more expensive to produce or acquire or we may not be able to develop or acquire content that is attractive to our audiences. Television programming is one of the most significant components of our operating costs. The ability of programming to generate advertising revenues depends substantially on our ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program depends on several tangible and intangible factors, including the impact of competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and general economic conditions. Furthermore, the costs of acquiring content attractive to our viewers, such as feature films and popular television series and formats, may increase as a result of greater competition from existing and new television broadcasting channels. Our expenditure in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to the implementation of new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs, changes in audience tastes in our markets in favor of locally produced content, and competition for talent. In addition, we typically acquire syndicated programming rights under multi-year commitments before we can predict whether such programming will perform well in our markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be necessary to increase our expenditures by investing in additional programming as well as to write down the value of such underperforming programming. Any increase in programming costs or write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The transition to digital broadcasting may require substantial additional investments and the timing of such investments is uncertain. Countries in which we have operations are migrating from analog terrestrial broadcasting to digital terrestrial broadcasting. Each country has independent plans with its own timeframe and regulatory and investment regime. The specific timing and approach to implementing such plans is subject to change. We cannot predict the effect of the migration on our existing operations or predict the likelihood of our receiving any additional rights or licenses to broadcast for our existing channels or any additional channels if such additional rights or licenses should be required under any relevant regulatory regime. Furthermore, we may be required to make substantial additional capital investment and commit substantial other resources to implement digital terrestrial broadcasting, and the availability of competing alternative distribution systems, such as direct-to-home platforms, may require us to acquire additional distribution and content rights. We may not have access to resources sufficient to make such investments when required. Our business is vulnerable to significant changes in technology that could adversely affect us. The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analog terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital terrestrial broadcasting, direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences. This has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect our ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies penetrate our markets. New technologies that enable viewers to choose when and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could impact our business. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments allow for an increase in the number of channels that may be broadcast in our markets and expanded programming offerings that may be offered to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching additional channels could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. Our television broadcasting operations may be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources on the implementation of new broadcasting technologies or distribution systems. In addition, an expansion in competition due to technological innovation may increase competition for audiences and advertising revenue as well as the competitive demand for programming. Any requirement for substantial further investment to address competition that arises on account of technological innovations in broadcasting may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Page 32 Table of Contents We may not be aware of all related party transactions, which may involve risks of conflicts of interest that result in concluding transactions on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arms-length transactions. In certain of our markets, Adrian Sarbu, our President and Chief Executive Officer and member of our Board of Directors (who is a shareholder in CME and in our Romania operations), general directors or other members of the management of our operating companies have other business interests in their respective countries, including interests in television and other media related companies. For example, following the completion of acquisition of Media Pro Entertainment, Mr. Sarbu continues to own or control entities involved in print media, internet services and news syndication services, among others. We may not be aware of all business interests or relationships that exist with respect to entities with which our operating companies enter into transactions. Transactions with companies, whether or not we are aware of any business relationship between our employees and third parties, may present conflicts of interest which may in turn result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arms-length. It is likely that our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. In the event there are transactions with persons who subsequently are determined to be related parties, we may be required to make additional disclosure and, if such contracts are material, may not be in compliance with certain covenants under the indentures governing the Senior Notes. Any related party transaction that is entered into on terms that are not arms-length may result in a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to prevent the management of our operating companies from entering into transactions that are outside their authority and not in the best interests of shareholders. The general directors of our operating companies have significant management authority on a local level, subject to the overall supervision by the corresponding company board of directors and the Operating Committee. In addition, we typically grant authority to other members of management through delegated authorities. Internal controls may not be able to prevent an employee from acting outside his authority. There is therefore a risk that employees with delegated authorities may act outside their authority and that our operating companies will enter into transactions that are not duly authorized. Unauthorized transactions may not be in the best interests of our shareholders and may create the risk of fraud or the breach of applicable law, which may result in transactions or sanctions that may have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation. We require broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets, in order to conduct our broadcasting business. Our analog broadcasting licenses expire at various times between March 2010 and January 2025. The analog license for NOVA TV (Croatia) expires in March 2010 and the Croatia Media Council is holding a public tender for its renewal. While we expect that the NOVA TV (Croatia) license, as well as our other material licenses and authorizations, will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate our business, we cannot guarantee that this will occur or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or with applications filed in respect thereto may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of any other broadcasting or operating licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Page 33 Table of Contents Our operations are in developing markets where there is a risk of economic uncertainty, biased treatment and loss of business. Our revenue generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe. These markets pose different risks to those posed by investments in more developed markets and the impact in our markets of unforeseen circumstances on economic, political or social life is greater. The economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, standards of corporate governance and business practices of countries in this region continue to develop. Government policies may be subject to significant adjustments, especially in the event of a change in leadership. This may result in social or political instability or disruptions, potential political influence on the media, inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before judicial or other regulatory authorities and other general business risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include exchange controls, higher tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of our markets and the influence of local political parties also present a potential for biased treatment of CME before regulators or courts in the event of disputes involving our investments. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the loss of our business operations. The loss of a material business would have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the media industry and have made an important contribution to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Enforcement Rights We are a Bermuda company and enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult. Central European Media Enterprises Ltd. is a Bermuda company; substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States. In addition, several of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, investors may be unable to affect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (i) judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws or (ii) in original actions brought in such countries, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States federal and state securities laws. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action in Bermuda, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. Page 34 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock The holders of shares of our Class B stock are in a position to decide corporate actions that require shareholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of other shareholders Shares of our Class B common stock carry ten votes per share and shares of our Class A common stock carry one vote per share. As of December 31, 2009, Ronald Lauder, our founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors, owns or has voting control over approximately 68.27% of our outstanding common stock. A portion of this voting power is attributable to a voting agreement among the Company, Mr. Lauder, RSL Savannah LLC, a company wholly owned by Mr. Lauder, and Time Warner Media Holdings B.V., an affilitate of Time Warner Inc. (“Time Warner”), whereby Mr. Lauder is entitled to vote the 14,500,000 shares of Class A common stock and 4,500,000 shares of Class B common stock owned by Time Warner, as well as any other CME shares acquired by Time Warner during the term of the voting agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Time Warner reserves the right to vote certain shares in any transaction that would result in a change of control of the Company (see Part II, Item 8, Note 14, “Equity”). Because of this voting power, Mr. Lauder is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors or certain transactions, including issuances of common stock of the Company that may result in a dilution of the holders of shares of Class A common stock or in a change of control. The interests of Mr. Lauder may not be the same as those of other shareholders, and such shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of such corporate actions for so long as Mr. Lauder retains voting control. The price of our Class A common stock is likely to remain volatile. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to our Operations” as well as the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, license renewals, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the EU, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, the volume of trading in shares of our Class A common stock, future issuances of shares of our Class A common stock and investors’ and securities analysts’ perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our share price may be adversely affected by future issuances and sales of our shares. As at February 24, 2010, we have a total of 1.9 million options to purchase Class A common stock outstanding and 0.1 million options to purchase shares of Class B common stock outstanding. An affiliate of PPF a.s., from whom we acquired the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group, holds 3,500,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock that were issued in 2005 and in 2007 we issued 1,275,227 unregistered shares of Class A common stock to Igor Kolomoisky, for which he has registration rights. Entities controlled by Adrian Sarbu hold 2,200,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 850,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock following the acquisition of Media Pro Entertainment (see Part II, Item 8, Note 3, “Acquistions and Disposals”). An affiliate of Apax Partners holds 3,168,575 unrestricted shares of Class A common stock. An affiliate of Time Warner holds 14,500,000 unregistered shares of Class A common stock and 4,500,000 unregistered shares of Class B common stock. Time Warner has registration rights with respect to the shares of Class A common stock (see Part II, Item 8, Note 14, “Equity”). Page 35 Table of Contents In addition, the Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our Class A common stock and mature on March 15, 2013. Holders of the Convertible Notes have registration rights with respect to the shares of Class A common stock underlying the Convertible Notes. Prior to December 15, 2012, the Convertible Notes will be convertible following certain events and from that date, at any time through March 15, 2013. From time to time up to and including December 15, 2012, we will have the right to elect to deliver (i) shares of our Class A common stock or (ii) cash and, if applicable, shares of our Class A common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. At present, we have elected to deliver cash and, if applicable, shares of our Class A common stock. To mitigate the potentially dilutive effect of a conversion of the Convertible Notes on our Class A common stock, we have entered into two capped call transactions with respect to a certain number of shares of our Class A common stock that are exercisable in the event of a conversion of the Convertible Notes or at maturity on March 15, 2013. We may receive cash or shares of our Class A common stock upon the exercise of the calls (see Part II, Item 8, Note 6 “Senior Debt”). We cannot predict what effect, if any, an issuance of shares of our common stock, including the Class A common stock underlying options or the Convertible Notes and in connection with future financings, or the entry into trading of previously issued unregistered or restricted shares of our Class A common stock, will have on the market price of our shares. If more shares of common stock are issued, the economic interest of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected. ITEM 1 B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. Page 36 Table of Contents ITEM 