Item 1A Risk FactorsThis report and the following discussion of risk factors contain forward-looking statements as discussed on page 2 of this report. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our Financial PositionWe continue to face significant liquidity constraints and require the closing of the financing transactions announced on February 28, 2014, including the Rights Offering and other transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement, or other additional external sources of capital, to fund our operations and for our debt service obligations.Our attempts to increase television advertising prices in 2013 were met with significant resistance from certain advertisers and agencies in the Czech Republic. This resulted in a significant decline in revenues for 2013 compared to 2012. Looking forward, we expect the impact of the challenging environment in the Czech Republic to continue as we endeavor to attract back advertising clients while continuing to seek improvements in pricing compared to 2012. While we expect a significant improvement in Czech advertising revenues in 2014, we do not expect advertising revenues in the Czech Republic to reach 2012 levels in 2014. We anticipate a similar trend in our consolidated results for 2014, and expect to build upon them in 2015. Our financial situation in 2013 was also impacted by a further decline in advertising revenues in the Slovak Republic due to the reaction to our pricing initiatives in the Czech Republic from clients who also advertise in the Slovak Republic. Furthermore, carriage fee negotiations in the Czech Republic during 2013 did not advance to the extent that we had expected. As a result, we continue to take actions to conserve cash, including targeted reductions to our operating cost base through cost optimization programs and restructuring efforts, the deferral of programming commitments and capital expenditures and the deferral or cancellation of development projects. We have also delayed the settlement of payment obligations with a number of key suppliers, including payments due under contracts for acquired programming, which has resulted in our accounts payable and accrued liabilities increasing to US$ 296.4 million at December 31, 2013 compared to US$ 255.7 million at December 31, 2012 and US$ 240.0 million at December 31, 2011. Despite the expectation of significantly improved revenue and OIBDA performance in 2014, our cash interest costs and the need to improve our payables position will result in increased operating cash outflows during 2014 compared to 2013. We expect that our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be insufficient to cover operating expenses and interest payments and we will need other capital resources this year to fund our operations, our debt service and other obligations as they become due, including the settlement of such deferred payment obligations.We have been evaluating options to improve our liquidity in light of our results for 2013, our outlook for 2014 and our plan to improve our payables position. In this respect, following the end of the third quarter of 2013 we began discussions with Time Warner regarding a potential capital transaction, including the potential issuance of debt, to address our liquidity position. Following the publication of our third quarter earnings, we held investor meetings with certain of our debt and equity investors. We subsequently began exploring the availability of other financing options, including equity financing, a combination of debt and equity financing and asset sales. Based on information received during our investor meetings and the exploration of our financing alternatives, we concluded that any financing involving equity was not viable without the upfront significant committed participation of Time Warner, which Time Warner did not provide. In addition, we received proposals from several potential purchasers regarding the acquisition of certain assets. The proposals we received, however, were generally from opportunistic purchasers who expected to purchase such assets at a substantial discount to the value of these businesses or such offers came with significant timing or execution risk.After consideration of these discussions and inquiries and in light of the continued severe pressure on our liquidity during the latter part of 2013 and our expectation that this will continue through 2014, a committee of our disinterested directors determined that the Rights Offering together with the other financing transactions with the participation of Time Warner was in the best interests of the Company and we entered into the Framework Agreement pursuant to which we and Time Warner have committed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to undertake and facilitate a series of related financing transactions, including the Rights Offering, Backstop Private Placement and TW Unit Private Placement. The principal purpose of these financing transactions is to enhance our overall liquidity and cash flow by refinancing the remaining EUR 273.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes, which are cash pay indebtedness, with non-cash pay indebtedness including the 2017 PIK Notes, the Time Warner Term Loan and the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility. We are seeking to raise up to US$ 339.1 million in new indebtedness through the Rights Offering, an additional US$ 57.7 million in new indebtedness through the TW Unit Private Placement and US$ 30.0 million in new indebtedness through the Time Warner Term Loan to enable us to refinance the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and for general corporate purposes. (For additional information on the financing transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events".) 10IndexIf the Rights Offering and other financing transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement are not closed, we will need other external sources of capital to continue our operations, including through other debt or equity financing transactions or asset sales, which may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. If these actions are not successful, and we are unable to continue to delay payments to some of our major suppliers, we will not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund our operations in the middle of 2014. There are no assurances regarding the ultimate outcome of any of the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement.There is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern.We expect that our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be insufficient to cover operating expenses and interest payments. If we do not close the Rights Offering, the TW Unit Private Placement, the Time Warner Term Loan and the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility, we will need other capital resources this year to fund our operations, debt service and other obligations as they become due, including the settlement of delayed payment obligations to some of our key suppliers, such as payments due under contracts for acquired programming, While we have entered into the Framework Agreement with Time Warner relating to the Rights Offering and other financing transactions contemplated therein, our ability to close these transactions is subject to our obtaining the consent of the holders of the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes pursuant to the Consent Solicitation. There can be no assurances that we will obtain this consent or that these transactions will be closed. As a result, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2013 contains an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern. This uncertainty may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital.Our operating results will continue to be adversely affected if we cannot generate strong advertising sales.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on our television channels. In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that may affect our advertising sales are the pricing of advertising time as well as audience ratings, changes in programming strategy, changes in audience preferences, our channels’ technical reach, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, competition from other broadcasters and operators of other media platforms, seasonal trends in the advertising market, increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and shifts in population and other demographics. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, civil or military conflicts or general political instability may create further economic uncertainty that reduces advertising spending. The reduction in advertising spending in our markets over the past few years has had a negative effect on television advertising prices because of pressure to reduce prices from advertisers and discounting by competitors. We attempted to combat this fall in prices by implementing a new pricing strategy in 2013. There was an adverse reaction to this strategy from agencies and advertisers, particularly in the Czech Republic, which resulted in a significant decrease in revenues compared to 2012 and was the main cause of a decline in our net revenues and in the television advertising market in that country. While we expect a significant improvement in Czech advertising revenues in 2014, we do not expect advertising revenues in the Czech Republic to reach 2012 levels in 2014. Advertising spending may also be affected by the expansion of distribution platforms and changing preferences in how and when people view content and the accompanying advertising. Our ability to maintain audience ratings and to generate GRPs, also depends on our maintaining investments in television programming and productions at a sufficient level to continue to attract audiences. Significant or sustained reductions in investments in programming that attracts such audiences or other operating costs in response to reduced advertising spending in our markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our television viewing levels. Reduced advertising spending, resistance to our price increases and the discounting of television advertising prices in our markets as well as competition for ratings from broadcasters seeking to attract similar audiences have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our advertising sales. The significant decline in advertising sales has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The global economic slowdown, credit crisis and concerns regarding the Eurozone have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations. We cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover or how long any recovery may last. A failure to achieve prompt and lasting recoveries will continue to adversely affect our results of operations.The results of our operations depend heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by prevailing general and regional economic conditions. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system since the beginning of 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries across Central and Eastern Europe, some of which are still contending with recession. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in them. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising spending in our markets, leading our customers to continue to spend less on advertising than at the peak period in 2008 as they modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase advertising. This has negatively impacted our financial position, results of operations and cash flows since 2008. While gross domestic product and private consumption returned to growth in 2011 in most of our operating countries, they weakened again during 2012 due to continuing concerns regarding Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, the stability of the Eurozone, the sustainability of the Euro as a common currency and the growth prospects of major emerging market and developed market economies globally. After adjusting for inflation, we estimate that GDP in our territories remained flat overall during 2013 compared to 2012. As a result, the economic conditions of our operating countries remain challenging, particularly in Slovenia where recent banking sector problems and ongoing political instability contributed to a significant increase of the country’s sovereign risk. Recent economic events related to the continuing sovereign debt crisis in several European Union countries have highlighted issues relating to the strength of the banking sector in Europe and its ability to safeguard depositors’ funds and the long-term stability of the Euro as a single currency. Though the European Union has created external funding and stability mechanisms to provide liquidity and financial assistance to Eurozone member states and financial institutions, there can be no assurance that the recent market disruptions in Europe related to sovereign debt and the banking sector, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not continue, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected banks, countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. Furthermore, the departure of a country from the Euro or the dissolution of the Euro by its members could negatively impact our business as well as cause significant volatility and disruption in the global economy. Any of these developments would have a significant negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11IndexWe may not be successful in our attempts to diversify and enhance our revenues.We are focused on creating additional revenue streams from our broadcast operations as well as enhancing revenues generated from broadcast advertising, which is how we generate the substantial majority of our revenues. Our main efforts with respect to this strategy are on increasing carriage fees from cable and direct-to-home (“DTH”) operators for carriage of our channels as well as continuing to seek improvements in advertising pricing compared to 2012. Changes to our advertising sales policies introduced in 2013 that were designed to boost revenues and to support pricing increases across our markets were met with significant resistance from certain advertisers and agencies in the Czech Republic. This resulted in a significant decline in revenues for 2013 compared to 2012. Our financial situation in 2013 was also impacted by a further decline in advertising revenues in the Slovak Republic due to the reaction to our pricing initiatives in the Czech Republic from clients who also advertise in the Slovak Republic. Furthermore, carriage fee negotiations in the Czech Republic during 2013 did not advance to the extent that we had expected. Some cable and DTH operators temporarily suspended the broadcast of our channels during the implementation of our carriage fees strategy, which affects the reach and audience shares of those operations and as a result, advertising revenues. There is a risk that clients may continue to withdraw advertising from our channels or reduce spending, or that operators may refuse to carry our channels while carriage fee negotiations are ongoing. If we are ineffective in achieving carriage fee increases our profitability will continue to be dependent primarily on television advertising revenues, which places additional pressures on our ability to generate advertising revenues. There can be no assurances that these initiatives will ultimately be successful and this may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.Our debt service obligations may restrict our ability to fund our operations.We and certain of our subsidiaries have significant debt service obligations under the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and the 2015 Convertible Notes and will continue to have significant debt service obligations following the issuance of the 2017 PIK Notes to refinance the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and the drawdown of the Time Warner Term Loan, assuming the closing of the Rights Offering, or following the drawdown of the Time Warner Term Loan (including the Refinancing Portion of the Term Loan), assuming the Rights Offering is not closed by the Bridge Date. We will be obligated to pay to Time Warner a commitment fee of 1.25% of the Time Warner Term Loan and, if we drawdown the Refinancing Portion of the Term Loan, a funding fee of 1.25% of the Refinancing Portion of the Term Loan, a portion of which funding fee may be refunded to us depending on when we repay the Refinancing Portion of the Term Loan. In addition, while the 2017 PIK Notes will be non-cash pay indebtedness, the 2017 PIK Notes will accrue interest at a significantly higher rate than the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes, which obligations will be required to be repaid in cash by the maturity date of the 2017 PIK Notes, and the payment of interest expense in kind will increase our already significant leverage. As a result of our debt service obligations and covenants contained in the related indentures, we and our restricted subsidiaries are restricted under the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until redeemed following the closing of the financing transactions) and 2015 Convertible Notes and will be restricted under the 2017 PIK Notes, the Time Warner Term Loan and the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility in the manner in which our business is conducted, including but not limited to our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities and other corporate requirements. (For additional information on the financing transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events"). Furthermore, we may have a proportionally higher level of debt than our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Servicing our high level of debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, economic conditions and our industry. A further downgrading of our ratings may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing.Following a downgrade in September 2013, our corporate credit is rated as Caa1 and the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes are rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Services, which placed these ratings under review for downgrade following the release of our third quarter 2013 earnings. Standard & Poor’s rates our corporate credit B- and the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes B- and placed these ratings on negative watch in February 2014. These ratings reflect each agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations as they become due. Credit rating agencies monitor companies very closely and have made liquidity and the key ratios associated with it, such as gross leverage ratio, a particular priority. We are unlikely to be able to operate with sufficient liquidity in the next twelve months to maintain our current ratings if we do not secure additional financing or if we are not able to improve our financial performance. In the event our debt or corporate credit ratings are further lowered by the ratings agencies, it will be more difficult for us to refinance indebtedness or raise new indebtedness that may be permitted under our indentures and we will have to pay higher interest rates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings. We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are required to be assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates in our markets, reduced expected future cash flows, increased country risk premium as a result of political uncertainty and a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We consider available current information when calculating our impairment charge. We recorded an impairment charge of US$ 79.7 million with respect to goodwill and other intangible assets in our Bulgaria and Slovenia reporting units during the three months ended December 31, 2013 as a result of significant downward revisions in our estimates of the cash flows our operations will generate in future periods. If there are indicators of impairment, our long-term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. See Part II, Item 8, Note 4, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" for the carrying amounts of goodwill in each of our reporting units.Changes to our business could result in future costs or charges.We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including economic conditions, industry changes and technological developments, as reflected by the change in our reporting segments starting January 1, 2013. In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, business or assets in order to optimize our cost structure and capture operating efficiencies. For example, we have expanded the scope of our previously announced restructuring plans to operate with a more effective cost base and incurred charges in 2013 of approximately US$ 18.6 million. We also incurred total severance costs of approximately US$ 7.1 million during the third and fourth quarters of 2013. Additional similar events could also result in restructuring and other charges and the incurrence of additional costs or may require significant management time to implement. If any such charges are material, they could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 12IndexA default by us in connection with our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business.Pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until discharged following the closing of the financing transactions) and the 2015 Convertible Notes, we pledged, and under the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes, assuming the closing of the Rights Offering, and under the agreement for the Time Warner Term Loan as well as under the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility, we will pledge, all of the shares in CME NV and all of the shares of CME BV, which together own substantially all of the interests in our operating subsidiaries, as security for this indebtedness. (For additional information on the financing transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events".) In addition, pursuant to the indenture governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, we pledged our ownership interests in CET 21 and substantially all of CET 21’s assets, including issued shares of CME Slovak Holdings B.V. If we or our restricted subsidiaries were to default under the terms of any of the indentures governing such notes or the Time Warner Term Loan Agreement or Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility, the secured parties under such indentures or agreements would have the ability to sell all or a portion of the assets pledged to them in order to pay amounts outstanding under such debt instruments. In addition, in the event of a default under the indenture governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes, the secured parties thereunder can enforce against assets that are not part of the collateral for the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until redeemed following the closing of the financing transactions), the 2015 Convertible Notes, the Time Warner Term Loan or the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility and, assuming the closing of the Rights Offering, will not be part of the collateral of the 2017 PIK Notes, including the shares and business of CET 21. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness and may not be able to obtain favorable refinancing terms.We face the risk that our indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness being refinanced. This risk is exacerbated by the current volatility in the capital markets, which has resulted in tightened lending requirements and in some cases the inability to refinance indebtedness. Following the issuances of the 2017 PIK Notes to refinance the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and the drawdown of the Time Warner Term Loan as well as any drawdown of the Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility, we will continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including approximately US$ 261.0 million of 2015 Convertible Notes that mature on November 15, 2015. (For additional information on the financing transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events"). In addition, following the termination on June 18, 2013 of the Irrevocable Voting Deed and Proxy dated May 18, 2009 among an affiliate of Time Warner, Ronald Lauder and certain of his affiliates and us, as amended by a Letter Agreement dated April 29, 2013 (the “voting agreement”), Time Warner is no longer subject to an agreement not to own more than 49.9% of our voting securities. The acquisition by Time Warner (or any other person or group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) of more than 50% of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock would constitute a fundamental change under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. If such a fundamental change occurs, we would need to repurchase or refinance the 2015 Convertible Notes in the event the holders thereof exercise their repurchase option under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. If we were unable to repurchase or refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.Our reporting currency is the dollar but our consolidated revenues and costs, including programming rights expenses and interest on debt, are divided across a range of currencies. The 2017 Fixed Rate Notes and 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until redeemed following the closing of the financing transactions) are denominated in Euros. We have not attempted to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the principal amount of these notes. Furthermore, continuing instability in the Eurozone may increase our exposure to currency fluctuations. We may continue to experience significant gains and losses on the translation of our revenues or the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes and 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until redeemed following the closing of the financing transactions) into U.S. dollars due to movements in exchange rates between the Euro, applicable local currency and the U.S. dollar, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our OperationsProgramming content may become more expensive to produce or acquire or we may not be able to develop or acquire content that is attractive to our audiences.Television programming is one of the most significant components of our operating costs. The ability of programming to generate advertising revenues depends substantially on our ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program depends on several tangible and intangible factors, including the impact of competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior, and general economic conditions. Furthermore, the cost of acquiring content attractive to our viewers, such as feature films and popular television series and formats, has increased as a result of greater competition from existing and new television broadcasting channels at the same time as our revenues from advertising has declined. Our expenditures in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to the implementation of new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs, changes in audience tastes in our markets in favor of locally produced content, and competition for talent. In addition, we typically acquire syndicated programming rights under multi-year commitments before we can predict whether such programming will perform well in our markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be necessary to increase our expenditures by investing in additional programming, subject to the availability of adequate financial resources, as well as to write down the value of such underperforming programming, as has been the case in certain of our operating segments in 2013. Any increase in content costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of our advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. Television competes with various other media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising, for advertising spending. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media in our markets. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that changes in the regulatory environment or improvements in technology will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media and distribution could result in a decline in the appeal of television as an advertising medium generally or of our channels specifically. A decline in television advertising spending as a component of total advertising spending in any period or in specific markets would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13IndexOur businesses are vulnerable to significant changes in technology that could adversely affect us.The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analog terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital terrestrial television (“DTT”) broadcasting, direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences and the methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content. This has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect our ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies penetrate our markets. New business initiatives of ours to expand our distribution capabilities to adapt to changing patterns of consumption of content may not be embraced by consumers and therefore may not develop into profitable business models. New technologies that enable viewers to choose when, how, where and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could impact our businesses. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments allow for an increase in the number of channels that may be broadcast in our markets and expanded programming offerings that may be offered to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching additional channels could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. Our television broadcasting operations may be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to ensure necessary access to new broadcasting technologies or distribution systems. In addition, an expansion in competition due to technological innovation may increase competition for audiences and advertising revenue as well as the competitive demand for programming. Any requirement for substantial further investment to address competition that arises on account of technological innovations in broadcasting may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Piracy of our content may decrease revenues we can earn from our content and adversely impact our business and profitability. Piracy of our content poses significant challenges in our markets. Technological developments, including digital copying, file compressing, the use of international proxies and the growing penetration of high bandwidth internet connections, have made it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats. Furthermore, there are a growing number of video streaming sites, increasing the risk of online transmission of our content without consent. The proliferation of such sites broadcasting content pirated from us could result in a reduction of revenues that we receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, including revenues generated by Voyo, our subscription video-on-demand service and other revenue streams. Protection of our intellectual property is dependent on the manner in which applicable intellectual property laws in the countries in which we operate are construed and enforced. We seek to limit the threat of content piracy. However, detecting and policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is often difficult and remedies may be limited under applicable law. Steps we take may not prevent the infringement by third parties. There can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce our rights and protect our intellectual property will be successful in preventing piracy, which limits our ability to generate revenues from our content. We rely on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could harm our business or our reputation.We make extensive use of network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our internal network management as well as our new media operations. These systems are central to many of our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, malicious activities or other security breaches could result in a disruption or degradation of our services, the loss of information or the improper disclosure of personal data. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively impact our business by requiring us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or by harming our reputation. In addition, improper disclosure of personal data could subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data in the countries in which we operate. The development and maintenance of systems to prevent these events from occurring requires ongoing monitoring and updating as efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As technologies evolve, we will need to expend additional resources to protect our technology and information systems, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.The transition to digital television broadcasting may require substantial additional investments and the effectiveness of such investments is uncertain.Countries in which we have operations are migrating from analog terrestrial broadcasting to DTT broadcasting. Each country has independent plans for its digital switchover with its own timeframe, operating model and regulatory and investment regime. Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia have completed the analog switch-off. In Romania, which is in the initial stages of migration, completion is expected by 2015. We cannot predict the full effect of the migration to DTT broadcasting on existing operations or the take up of DTT broadcasting by their audiences. We also cannot predict whether our Romanian operations will receive rights or licenses to broadcast any existing or additional channels if additional rights or licenses to such broadcasting should be required once the digital switchover in Romania is completed. Our operations may be required to make substantial investment and commit substantial other resources to implement DTT broadcasting and secure distribution in advance of knowing the take up of DTT broadcasting versus competing alternative distribution systems, such as direct-to-home platforms. We may not have access to resources sufficient to make such investments when required.Our operations are in developing markets where there is a risk of economic uncertainty, biased treatment and loss of business.Our revenue‑generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe where we must comply with various regulatory obligations related to our businesses, including in respect of broadcasting and competition. We believe that we are in compliance with all our regulatory obligations in all material respects but it is not possible to predict how regulatory authorities or courts that have been or may be asked to resolve any allegations or claims will decide such issues. Our markets pose different risks to those posed by investments in more developed markets and the impact in our markets of unforeseen circumstances on economic, political or social life is greater. The economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, standards of corporate governance and business practices of countries in this region continue to develop. Government policies may be subject to significant adjustments, especially in the event of a change in leadership. This may result in social or political instability or disruptions, potential political influence on the media, inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before judicial or other regulatory authorities and other general business risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include exchange controls, higher tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of our markets and the influence of local political parties also present a potential for biased treatment of us before regulators or courts in the event of disputes involving our investments. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the loss of one or more of our business operations. The loss of a material business would have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 14IndexWe may not be aware of all related party transactions, which may involve risks of conflicts of interest that result in transactions being concluded on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arm’s-length transactions.In certain of our markets, the officers, general directors or other members of the management of our operating companies have other business interests, including interests in television and other media-related companies. We may not be aware of all business interests or relationships that exist with respect to entities with which our operating companies enter into transactions. Transactions with companies, whether or not we are aware of any business relationship between our employees and third parties, may present conflicts of interest which may in turn result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arm’s-length. It is likely that we and our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. In the event there are transactions with persons who subsequently are determined to be related parties, we may be required to make additional disclosure and, if such contracts are material, may not be in compliance with certain covenants under the indentures governing the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes and 2016 Fixed Rate Notes (until redeemed following the closing of the transactions described herein) or the covenants under the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes or the Time Warner Term Loan or Time Warner Revolving Credit Facility. Any related party transaction that is entered into on terms that are not arm’s-length may result in a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation.We require broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets in order to conduct our broadcasting business. Our broadcasting licenses for our operations in Slovenia and the Slovak Republic are valid for indefinite time periods and our remaining broadcasting licenses expire at various times through 2028. While we expect that our material licenses and authorizations will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate our business, we cannot guarantee that this will occur or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or with applications filed in respect thereto may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of any other broadcasting or operating licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the media industry and have made important contributions to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Enforcement RightsWe are a Bermuda company and enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult.We are a Bermuda company. Substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States. In addition, several of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws or (b) in original actions brought in such countries, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States federal and state securities laws.Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action in Bermuda, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken or concurred in by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.Risks Relating to our Common StockOur share price may be adversely affected by sales of unrestricted or unregistered shares or future issuances of our shares.Time Warner is the largest holder of shares of our Class A Common Stock, holding 61,407,775 unregistered shares of Class A Common Stock, and also holds one share of Series A Preferred Stock, and 200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into 11,211,449 shares of Class A Common Stock on the date that is 61 days after the date on which the ownership of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock by a group that includes TW Investor and its affiliates would not be greater than 49.9% of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock after three years from the date of issuance (June 25, 2013) at the option of Time Warner (subject to certain exceptions) at a conversion price of US$ 3.1625, subject to adjustment in the event of equity issuances at a price per share less than this conversion price (including in respect of the warrants to be offered in connection with the financing transactions (see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events")), on the date that is 61 days after the earlier of (a) the date on which the ownership of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock by a group would not be greater than 49.9% of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and (b) the date on which such beneficial ownership would not give to any person any right of redemption, repurchase or acceleration under any indenture or other document governing any of our indebtedness outstanding as of June 25, 2013. The initial stated value of US$ 1,000 per share of the Series B Preferred Stock accretes at a rate of 7.5% per annum, compounded quarterly, for the first three years from the date of issuance and 3.75% per annum, compounded quarterly, for the fourth and fifth years. Time Warner has registration rights with respect to all its shares of Class A Common Stock now held or hereafter acquired by Time Warner. As of December 25, 2013, the 200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were convertible into 65,641,500 shares of Class A Common Stock. 15IndexWe are party to an amended investor rights agreement (the “Investor Rights Agreement”) with Time Warner and the other parties thereto under which, among other things, Time Warner was granted a contractual preemptive right (subject to certain exclusions) with respect to issuances of the Company’s equity securities that applies to the issuance of the Units in the Rights Offering. We have executed the Framework Agreement, pursuant to which we and Time Warner have committed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to undertake a series of related financing transactions, including the Rights Offering. (For additional information on the financing transactions, see Part II, Item 8, Note 25, "Subsequent Events".) The 2015 Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our Class A Common Stock and mature on November 15, 2015. Prior to August 15, 2015, the 2015 Convertible Notes will be convertible following certain events and from that date at any time to November 15, 2015. Furthermore, there are additional unregistered or restricted shares of our Class A Common Stock outstanding, as well as securities convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock, that may enter the market. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the entry into trading of previously issued unregistered or restricted shares of Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our shares. We may also issue additional equity or indebtedness convertible into our equity in the future. If more shares of our Class A Common Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A Common Stock) are issued to Time Warner, the economic interests of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected. The interests of our controlling shareholders may conflict with the interests of other shareholders.Following the termination of the voting agreement in June 2013, Time Warner is able to exercise voting power in us with respect to 49.6% of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock. As such, Time Warner is in a position to exercise significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors or certain transactions, including the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement. Immediately after the issuance of the TW Initial Warrant to Time Warner in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Framework Agreement, the aggregate economic interest of Time Warner in us will increase from 65.0%, immediately prior to the execution of the Framework Agreement, to approximately 70%, immediately prior to the closing of the Rights Offering. If no other shareholders exercise Rights in the Rights Offering, the aggregate interests in our Class A Common Stock of Time Warner following its purchase of Backstop Units pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will increase to approximately 78.5% on a fully-diluted basis (without giving effect to the accretion of the Series B Preferred Stock after December 25, 2013). Under Bermuda law, there is no takeover code or similar legislation requiring an acquirer of a certain percentage of our Class A Common Stock to tender for the remaining publically held shares. In certain circumstances, the interests of Time Warner as controlling shareholder could be in conflict with the interests of minority shareholders.The price of our Class A Common Stock is likely to remain volatile.The market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to Our Operations” as well as the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, license renewals, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the European Union, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, the volume of trading in shares of our Class A Common Stock, future issuances of shares of our Class A Common Stock and investors’ and securities analysts’ perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.