ITEM 1A RISK FACTORSThis report and the following discussion of risk factors contain forward-looking statements as discussed on page 2 of this report. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our Financial PositionOur operating results will continue to be adversely affected if we cannot generate strong advertising sales.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on our television channels. The reduction in advertising spending in our markets following the onset of the global financial crisis at the beginning of 2009 had a negative effect on television advertising prices because of pressure to reduce prices from advertisers and discounting by competitors. We attempted to combat this fall in prices by implementing a new pricing strategy in 2013. There was an adverse reaction to this strategy from agencies and advertisers, particularly in the Czech Republic, which resulted in a significant decrease in revenues and market share in 2013 compared to 2012. In addition to general economic conditions (described below), other factors that may affect our advertising sales are the pricing of advertising time as well as competition from other broadcasters and operators of other distribution platforms, audience ratings, changes in programming strategy, changes in audience preferences, our channels’ technical reach, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, seasonal trends in the advertising market, changing preferences in how and when people view content and the accompanying advertising, increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and shifts in population and other demographics. Accordingly, our advertising revenues also depend on our ability to maintain audience ratings and to generate GRPs, which requires maintaining investments in television programming and productions at a sufficient level to continue to attract audiences. Significant or sustained reductions in investments in programming that attracts such audiences or other operating costs in response to reduced advertising spending in our markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our television viewing levels. Reduced advertising spending, resistance to price increases and discounting of television advertising prices in our markets as well as competition for ratings from broadcasters seeking to attract similar audiences have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our advertising sales. Failure to maintain and increase advertising sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Global or regional economic conditions, the credit crisis and concerns regarding the Eurozone have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations. We cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover or how long any recovery may last. A failure to achieve lasting recoveries will continue to adversely affect our results of operations.The results of our operations depend heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by general economic conditions in the region and globally. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system since the beginning of 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries across Central and Eastern Europe. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in them. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising spending in our markets, leading our customers to continue to spend less on advertising than at the peak period in 2008. This has negatively impacted our financial position, results of operations and cash flows since 2008. While real GDP (as adjusted for inflation) is estimated to have improved in our markets since 2014, we cannot predict if this represents the start of a sustained recovery or how long it will last. In addition, although we believe the economies of the countries in which we operate and advertising intensity will converge with developed nations, such convergence may not occur in the time frame we expect, or at all.Continued economic softness in the Eurozone, including a slow down in the growth of consumer prices, has prompted the European Central Bank to embark upon quantitative easing. Economic events related to the sovereign debt crisis in several European Union countries have also highlighted issues relating to the strength of the banking sector in Europe. Though the European Union has created external funding and stability mechanisms to provide liquidity and financial assistance to Eurozone member states and financial institutions, there can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe related to sovereign debt and the banking sector, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not continue, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize affected banks, countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. The departure of a country from the Euro or the dissolution of the Euro could cause significant volatility and disruption in the global economy, which would negatively impact our business. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, civil or military conflicts or general political instability and responses to it, such as the imposition of economic sanctions against Russia, may also cause a deterioration in general economic conditions that may reduce advertising spending. Any of these developments would have a significant negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 10IndexOur liquidity constraints and debt service obligations may restrict our ability to fund our operations.We have significant debt service obligations under the 2017 PIK Notes and the 2017 Term Loan (prior to their repayment), the 2018 Euro Term Loan and the 2019 Euro Term Loan, as well as the 2021 Euro Term Loan and the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (in each case when drawn). Having the option to pay interest in kind on the 2017 PIK Notes and the 2017 Term Loan has allowed us to reduce our cash interest costs, however each of these facilities has accrued interest at 15% per year and interest paid in-kind must be repaid at the repayment date. Furthermore, we are paying guarantee fees to Time Warner as consideration for its guarantees of the 2018 Euro Term Loan, the 2019 Euro Term Loan and the 2021 Euro Term Loan (when drawn) (collectively, the "TW Guarantees"). Although the entire guarantee fee in respect of the 2018 Euro Term Loan and the 2019 Euro Term Loan are, and a portion of the guarantee fee in respect of the 2021 Euro Term Loan will be, non-cash pay at our option, accruing such fees will further increase the amounts to be repaid at the maturity of these facilities. Accordingly, the payment of interest expense and guarantee fees in kind will increase our already significant leverage. As a result of our debt service obligations and covenants contained in the related indenture and loan agreements, we are restricted under the 2017 PIK Notes and the 2017 Term Loan (prior to their repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn) and the Reimbursement Agreement in the manner in which our business is conducted, including but not limited to our ability to obtain additional debt financing to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities or other corporate requirements. We may have a proportionally higher level of debt than our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, economic conditions and our industry. For additional information regarding the Reimbursement Agreement and the TW Guarantees, see Part II, Item 8, Note 5, "Long-term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements".Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.Our reporting currency is the dollar but our consolidated revenues and costs, including programming expenses and debt interest obligations, are divided across a range of currencies. The strengthening of the dollar had a negative impact on reported revenues in 2015 and while we expect our revenues will continue to increase in 2016 in our functional currencies, it is likely that a strong dollar will continue to have a negative impact on our reported revenues. In addition, a significant portion of our programming content is purchased pursuant to dollar-denominated agreements. If the dollar appreciates against our functional currencies, the cost of acquiring such content would be adversely affected. Furthermore, the 2018 Euro Term Loan and the 2019 Euro Term Loan are, and the 2021 Euro Term Loan will be, denominated in Euros. We have not attempted to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the principal amount of these loans and therefore may experience significant gains and losses on the translation of drawings under these loans and related interest payments into dollars. General market conditions or the global macroeconomic environment may increase our exposure to currency fluctuations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness and may not be able to obtain favorable refinancing terms.We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and we face the risk that we will not be able to renew, repay or refinance our indebtedness when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be on better terms than those of such indebtedness being refinanced. Under the 2017 Term Loan Agreement (prior to repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn), and the Reimbursement Agreement, we can incur only limited amounts of additional indebtedness, which includes indebtedness incurred to refinance existing indebtedness. In the event we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may be subject to changes in tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities.We are subject to taxes in a number of foreign jurisdictions, including in respect of our operations as well as capital transactions undertaken by us. We are subject to regular review and audit by tax authorities, and in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for taxes. The final determination of our tax liabilities resulting from tax audits, related proceedings or otherwise could be materially different from our tax provisions. Economic and political pressures to increase receipts in various jurisdictions may make taxation and tax rates subject to significant change and the satisfactory resolution of any tax disputes more difficult. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.A default by us in connection with our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business.Pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes and the agreements governing the 2017 Term Loan (prior to their repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn) and the Reimbursement Agreement, we pledged all of the shares of CME NV and of CME BV, which together own substantially all of the interests in our operating subsidiaries, as security for this indebtedness. If we or these subsidiaries were to default under the terms of any of the relevant indentures or agreements, the secured parties under such indentures and agreements would have the ability to sell all or a portion of the assets pledged to them in order to pay amounts outstanding under such debt instruments. This could result in our inability to conduct our business.We may not be successful in continuing our attempts to diversify and enhance our revenues.We are focused on creating additional revenue streams from our broadcast operations as well as increasing revenues generated from broadcast advertising, which is how we generate most of our revenues. Our main efforts with respect to this strategy are on increasing carriage fees from cable and satellite operators for carriage of our channels as well as continuing to seek improvements in advertising pricing. We are also working to build-out our offerings of advertising video-on-demand products and other opportunities for advertising online. During prior negotiations to implement our carriage fees strategy, some cable and satellite operators suspended the broadcast of our channels, which affects the reach and audience shares of those operations and as a result, advertising revenues. There is a risk that operators may refuse to carry our channels while carriage fee negotiations are ongoing or that clients withdraw advertising from our channels or reduce spending as a result of reduced coverage, or that going forward we will not be successful in renewing carriage fee agreements on the same or better terms, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If we are ineffective in achieving further carriage fee increases, our profitability will continue to be dependent primarily on television advertising revenues, which increases the importance placed on our ability to improve advertising pricing and generate advertising revenues. There can be no assurances that our revenue diversification initiatives will ultimately be successful, and if unsuccessful, this may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 11IndexA downgrading of our ratings may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing.Moody’s Investors Service rates our corporate credit as Caa1, with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates our corporate credit B, with a stable outlook. These ratings reflect each agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations as they become due. Credit rating agencies view liquidity and the key ratios associated with it, such as gross leverage ratio, as a particular priority. We may be subject to downgrades if we fail to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. In the event our debt or corporate credit ratings are lowered by the rating agencies, it will be more difficult for us to refinance our existing indebtedness or raise new indebtedness that may be permitted under the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes or the 2017 Term Loan Agreement (prior to their repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn), and the Reimbursement Agreement, and we will have to pay higher interest rates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are required to be assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates in our markets, reduced expected future cash flows, increased country risk premium as a result of political uncertainty and a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We consider available current information when calculating our impairment charge. If there are indicators of impairment, our long-term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. See Part II, Item 8, Note 4, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" for the carrying amounts of goodwill in each of our reporting units.Changes to our business could result in future costs or charges.We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including economic conditions, industry changes and technological developments. In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets in order to optimize our cost structure and capture operating efficiencies. For example, we incurred charges of approximately US$ 9.9 million related to restructuring in 2014 and US$ 18.5 million in 2013 and total severance costs of approximately US$ 7.1 million during 2013. We pursued limited restructuring initiatives in 2015 and have incurred related restructuring charges. Similar events in the future could also result in restructuring and other charges and the incurrence of additional costs or may require significant management time to implement. If any such charges are material, they could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our OperationsProgramming content may become more expensive to produce or acquire or we may not be able to develop or acquire content that is attractive to our audiences.Television programming is one of the most significant components of our operating costs. The ability of programming to generate advertising revenues depends substantially on our ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program depends on several tangible and intangible factors, including the impact of competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior, and general economic conditions. While we have been successful in reducing content costs compared to prior periods, the cost of acquiring content attractive to our viewers, such as feature films and popular television series and formats, may increase in the future. Our expenditures in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to competition for talent and other necessary resources and changes in audience tastes in our markets as well as from the implementation of any new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs. In addition, we typically acquire syndicated programming rights under multi-year commitments before knowing how such programming will perform in our markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be necessary to increase our expenditures by investing in additional programming, subject to the availability of adequate financial resources, as well as to write down the value of any underperforming programming. Any material increase in content costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operations are vulnerable to significant changes in viewing habits and technology that could adversely affect us.The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of these new technologies and the introduction of non-traditional content distribution systems have increased competition for audiences and advertisers. Platforms such as direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the Internet, subscription and advertising video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of content on portable digital devices have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences and the methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content. This development has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect our ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies penetrate our markets. As we adapt to changing viewing patterns, it may be necessary to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to ensure necessary access to new technologies or distribution systems. Such initiatives may not develop into profitable business models. Furthermore, technologies that enable viewers to choose when, how, where and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could have a negative impact on our advertising revenues. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments allow for an increase in the number of channels that may be broadcast in our markets and expanded programming offerings that may be offered to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching new channels could lower entry barriers and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. This could increase the competitive demand for popular programming, resulting in an increase in content costs as we compete for audiences and advertising revenues. A failure to successfully adapt to changes in our industry as a result of technological advances may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of our advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. Television competes with various other media, such as the Internet, print, radio, and outdoor advertising, for advertising spending. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media in our markets. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that changes in the regulatory environment or improvements in technology will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media and distribution could result in a decline in the appeal of television as an advertising medium generally or of our channels specifically. A decline in television advertising spending as a component of total advertising spending in any period or in specific markets would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 12IndexPiracy of our content may decrease revenues we can earn from our content and adversely impact our business and profitability.Piracy of our content poses significant challenges in our markets. Technological developments, including digital copying, file compressing, the use of international proxies and the growing penetration of high bandwidth internet connections, have made it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats. Furthermore, there are a growing number of video streaming sites, increasing the risk of online transmission of our content without consent. The proliferation of such sites broadcasting content pirated from us could result in a reduction of revenues that we receive from the legitimate distribution of our content, including through video-on-demand and other services. Protection of our intellectual property is in large part dependent on the manner in which applicable intellectual property laws in the countries in which we operate are construed and enforced. We seek to limit the threat of content piracy. However, detecting and policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is often difficult and remedies may be limited under applicable law. Steps we take may not prevent the infringement by third parties. There can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce our rights and protect our intellectual property will be successful in preventing piracy, which limits our ability to generate revenues from our content.Our operations are in developing markets where there are additional risks related to political and economic uncertainty, biased treatment and compliance with evolving legal and regulatory systems.Our revenue-generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe and we may be significantly affected by risks that may be different to those posed by investments in more developed markets. These risks include, but are not limited to, social and political instability, inconsistent regulatory or judicial practice, and increased taxes and other costs. The economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, regulatory practices, standards of corporate governance and business practices of countries in this region continue to develop. Policies and practices may be subject to significant adjustments, including following changes in political leadership. This may result in social or political instability or disruptions and the potential for political influence on the media as well as inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before regulatory or judicial authorities and other general business risks. Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include exchange controls, higher taxes, tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of our markets and the influence of local politics also present a potential for biased treatment of us before regulators or courts in the event of disputes. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the loss of one or more of our business operations. Furthermore, we must comply with a wide variety of laws and other regulatory obligations in these jurisdictions. Compliance with foreign as well as applicable U.S. laws and regulations related to our businesses, such as broadcasting content and advertising regulations, competition regulations, tax laws, employment laws, data protection requirements, and anti-corruption laws, increases the costs and risks of doing business in these jurisdictions. We have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to ensure our employees, contractors and agents comply with these laws and regulations; however, a violation of such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies and procedures could occur. For example, we have become aware of provisions in the tax regulations of one of our markets that shift the liability for taxes on gains resulting from certain capital transactions from the seller to the buyer, which may have been applicable to an acquisition made by us. While we do not believe we have any liability connected to this transaction, any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether inadvertent or otherwise, may result in legal or regulatory proceedings being initiated against us. Any legal and regulatory proceedings or developments in respect of our compliance with, or changes in the interpretation or application of, existing laws or regulations, may require us to incur substantial costs, cause us to change our business practices, damage our reputation or expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, including fines and other penalties that may be substantial. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may not be aware of all related party transactions, which may involve risks of conflicts of interest that result in transactions being concluded on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arm’s-length transactions.In our markets, the officers, general directors, other members of management or employees of our operating companies may have other business interests, including interests in television and other media-related companies. We may not be aware of all business interests or relationships that exist with respect to entities with which our operating companies enter into transactions. Transactions with related parties, whether or not we are aware of any such relationships between our employees and third parties, may present conflicts of interest and may result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arm’s-length. It is likely that we and our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. In the event there are transactions with persons who subsequently are determined to be related parties or affiliates, we may be required to make additional disclosure and, if such contracts are material, may not be in compliance with certain covenants under the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes and the 2017 Term Loan Agreement (prior to their repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn) or the Reimbursement Agreement. Any related party transaction that is entered into on terms that are not arm’s-length may result in a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We rely on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could harm our business or our reputation.We make extensive use of network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our internal network management as well as our broadcasting operations. These systems are central to many of our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, malicious activities or other security breaches could result in a disruption or degradation of our services, the loss of information or the improper disclosure of personal data. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively impact our business by requiring us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or by harming our reputation. In addition, improper disclosure of personal data could subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data in the countries in which we operate. The development and maintenance of systems to prevent these events from occurring requires ongoing monitoring and updating as efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As technologies evolve, we will need to expend additional resources to protect our technology and information systems, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 13IndexOur broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation.We require broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets in order to conduct our broadcasting business. While our broadcasting licenses for our operations in Slovenia and the Slovak Republic are valid for indefinite time periods, our other broadcasting licenses expire at various times through 2028. While we expect that our material licenses and authorizations will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate our business, we cannot guarantee that this will occur or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or with applications filed in respect thereto may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of any other broadcasting or operating licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the media industry and have made important contributions to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Enforcement RightsWe are a Bermuda company and enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult.We are a Bermuda company. Substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States. In addition, several of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws or (b) in original actions brought in such countries, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States federal and state securities laws.Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action in Bermuda, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken or concurred in by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.Risks Relating to our Common StockOur share price may be adversely affected by sales of unregistered shares or future issuances of our shares.Time Warner is the largest holder of shares of our Class A common stock, holding 61,407,775 unregistered shares of Class A common stock, one share of Series A preferred stock, 200,000 shares of Series B preferred stock and warrants to acquire 100,926,996 shares of our Class A common stock (the "TW Warrants"). The share of Series A preferred stock is convertible into 11,211,449 shares of Class A common stock. The shares of Series B preferred stock are convertible into shares of Class A common stock from June 25, 2016 at the option of Time Warner (subject to certain exceptions). As of December 31, 2015, the 200,000 shares of Series B preferred stock were convertible into approximately 99.5 million shares of Class A common stock. The TW Warrants are exercisable for shares of Class A common stock from May 2, 2016 until May 2, 2018, subject to the right of Time Warner to exercise such warrants prior to May 2, 2016 in certain circumstances. Time Warner has registration rights with respect to all its shares of Class A common stock now held or hereafter acquired. Furthermore, there are additional unregistered shares of our Class A common stock outstanding and shares of Class A common stock underlying other warrants that may enter into trading. For additional information on the Series A preferred stock, Series B preferred stock and TW Warrants, see Part II, Item 8, Note 12, "Convertible Redeemable Preferred Shares" and Note 13, "Equity".We cannot predict what effect, if any, the entry into trading of previously issued unregistered shares of Class A common stock will have on the market price of our shares. We may also issue additional shares of Class A common stock or securities convertible into our equity in the future. If more shares of our Class A common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock) are issued to Time Warner, the economic interests of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected.The interests of Time Warner may conflict with the interests of other investors.Time Warner is able to exercise voting power in us with respect to 49.4% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. As such, Time Warner is in a position to exercise significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors or certain transactions. Following the issuance of the TW Warrants, the aggregate economic interest of Time Warner in us is approximately 75.7%, (without giving effect to the accretion of the Series B Preferred Stock after December 31, 2015). Furthermore, Time Warner has the right to appoint one less than the number required to constitute a majority of our board of directors, provided that Time Warner continues to own not less than 40% of the voting power of the Company. In addition, we are party to an amended investor rights agreement with Time Warner and the other parties thereto under which, among other things, Time Warner was granted a contractual preemptive right (subject to certain exclusions) with respect to issuances of the Company’s equity securities, which permits it to maintain its pro rata economic interest as well as a right to top any offer that would result in a change of control of the Company. Under Bermuda law, there is no takeover code or similar legislation requiring an acquirer of a certain percentage of our Class A common stock to tender for the remaining publically held shares. In certain circumstances, the interests of Time Warner as our largest shareholder could be in conflict with the interests of minority shareholders. 14IndexFurthermore, in addition to being our largest shareholder Time Warner is our largest secured creditor, as it holds or guarantees 92.7% of our outstanding senior indebtedness as at December 31, 2015, and will hold or guarantee 100% of our outstanding senior indebtedness following the completion of the transactions contemplated in Note 26, "Subsequent Events". Time Warner will be entitled to vote or otherwise make decisions in its capacity as a lender under the 2017 Term Loan (prior to its repayment) and the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn) or as a guarantor under the Reimbursement Agreement. The 2017 Term Loan (prior to its repayment), the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (when drawn) and the Reimbursement Agreement contain maintenance covenants in respect of interest cover, cash flow cover and total leverage ratios and have more restrictive provisions than equivalent provisions contained in the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes, including covenants in respect of the incurrence of indebtedness (including refinancing indebtedness), the provision of guarantees, making investments and granting security and certain events of default. As such, Time Warner may be in a position to determine whether to permit transactions, waive defaults or accelerate such indebtedness or take other steps in its capacity as a secured creditor in a manner that might not be consistent with the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock or other holders of our indebtedness.The price of our Class A common stock is likely to remain volatile.The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to Our Operations” as well as the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, license renewals, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the European Union, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, the volume of trading in shares of our Class A common stock, future issuances of shares of our Class A common stock and investors’ and securities analysts’ perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance.Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of shareholder activism.On November 18, 2015, TCS Capital Management, LLC, a beneficial owner of more than 10% of our shares, submitted a letter to the Board of Directors and filed a Schedule 13D disclosing its ownership interest. In recent years, shareholder activists, such as TCS Capital, have become involved in numerous public companies. Shareholder activists frequently propose to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of the Company. Such proposals may disrupt our business and divert the attention of our management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, all of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.