ITEM 1A RISK FACTORSThis report and the following discussion of risk factors contain forward-looking statements as discussed on page 2 of this report. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our Financial PositionOur operating results will continue to be adversely affected if we cannot generate strong advertising sales.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on our television channels. The reduction in advertising spending in our markets following the onset of the global financial crisis at the beginning of 2009 had a negative effect on television advertising prices because of pressure to reduce prices from advertisers and discounting by competitors. We attempted to combat this fall in prices by implementing a new pricing strategy in 2013. There was an adverse reaction to this strategy from agencies and advertisers, particularly in the Czech Republic, which resulted in a significant decrease in revenues in 2013 compared to 2012. While we made significant progress last year regaining advertising market share lost in 2013 and anticipate revenues will increase in 2015, we do not expect to reach 2012 levels during the year.In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that may affect our advertising sales are the pricing of advertising time as well as competition from other broadcasters and operators of other distribution platforms, audience ratings, changes in programming strategy, changes in audience preferences, our channels’ technical reach, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, seasonal trends in the advertising market, changing preferences in how and when people view content and the accompanying advertising, increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and shifts in population and other demographics. Accordingly, our advertising revenues also depend on our ability to maintain audience ratings and to generate GRPs, which requires maintaining investments in television programming and productions at a sufficient level to continue to attract audiences. Significant or sustained reductions in investments in programming that attracts such audiences or other operating costs in response to reduced advertising spending in our markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our television viewing levels. Reduced advertising spending, resistance to price increases and discounting of television advertising prices in our markets as well as competition for ratings from broadcasters seeking to attract similar audiences have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our advertising sales. Failure to maintain and increase advertising sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Global or regional economic conditions, the credit crisis and concerns regarding the Eurozone have adversely affected our financial position and results of operations. We cannot predict if or when economic conditions in the countries in which we operate will recover or how long any recovery may last. A failure to achieve lasting recoveries will continue to adversely affect our results of operations.The results of our operations depend heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by general economic conditions in the region and globally. The economic uncertainty affecting the global financial markets and banking system since the beginning of 2009 has had an adverse impact on economic growth in our operating countries across Central and Eastern Europe, one of which, Croatia, is still contending with recession. There has been a widespread withdrawal of investment funding from the Central and Eastern European markets and companies with investments in them. Furthermore, the economic downturn has adversely affected consumer and business spending, access to credit, liquidity, investments, asset values and employment rates. These adverse economic conditions have had a material negative impact on the advertising spending in our markets, leading our customers to continue to spend less on advertising than at the peak period in 2008. This has negatively impacted our financial position, results of operations and cash flows since 2008. While real GDP is estimated to have improved in our markets in 2014, we cannot predict if this represents the start of a recovery or how long it will last. During 2014, countries in the European Union and around the world authorized economic sanctions against individuals and entities in Russia in response to events that transpired in Ukraine. If these sanctions result in a negative impact on the economies of the European Union, the countries in which we operate may be significantly impacted given the export-oriented nature of their economies. Continued softness in the Eurozone, including a slow down in the growth of consumer prices, has prompted the European Central Bank to embark upon quantitative easing. Economic events related to the sovereign debt crisis in several European Union countries have also highlighted issues relating to the strength of the banking sector in Europe. Though the European Union has created external funding and stability mechanisms to provide liquidity and financial assistance to Eurozone member states and financial institutions, there can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe related to sovereign debt and the banking sector, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not continue, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize affected banks, countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. Furthermore, the departure of a country from the Euro or the dissolution of the Euro by its members could negatively impact our business as well as cause significant volatility and disruption in the global economy. In addition, the occurrence of disasters, acts of terrorism, civil or military conflicts or general political instability and responses to it, such as the imposition of economic sanctions against Russia, may also cause a deterioration in general economic conditions that may reduce advertising spending. Any of these developments would have a significant negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 9IndexOur liquidity constraints and debt service obligations may restrict our ability to fund our operations.We have significant debt service obligations under the 2015 Convertible Notes, the 2017 PIK Notes, the 2017 Term Loan, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the 2017 Euro Term Loan. We expect that our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be insufficient to cover operating expenses and our debt service obligations, including the repayment of the 2015 Convertible Notes at maturity on November 15, 2015. Improving our payables position resulted in increased operating cash outflows during 2014 compared to 2013, which we funded in part with a drawing under the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, resulting in an increase in our debt service obligations. In addition, although interest on the 2017 PIK Notes is initially non-cash pay and on the 2017 Term Loan is non-cash pay at our option, reducing our cash interest costs in the near term, the 2017 PIK Notes and the 2017 Term Loan accrue interest at a significantly higher rate than the 2015 Convertible Notes, and such interest is required to be repaid in cash by their maturity dates. Furthermore, we must pay a fee to Time Warner as consideration for its guarantee of the 2017 Euro Term Loan (the "TW Guarantee"). Although the guarantee fee is non-cash pay at our option, accruing such fee will further increase the amounts to be repaid at the maturity date of the 2017 Euro Term Loan. Accordingly, the payment of interest expense in kind will increase our already significant leverage. As a result of our debt service obligations and covenants contained in the related indentures and loan agreements, we are restricted under the 2015 Convertible Notes, the 2017 PIK Notes, the 2017 Term Loan, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the reimbursement agreement with Time Warner relating to the TW Guarantee (the “Reimbursement Agreement") in the manner in which our business is conducted, including but not limited to our ability to obtain additional debt financing to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities, other corporate requirements. We may have a proportionally higher level of debt than our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, economic conditions and our industry. For additional information regarding the Reimbursement Agreement and the TW Guarantee, see Part II, Item 8, Note 5 "Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements - 2017 Euro Term Loan".Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.Our reporting currency is the dollar but our consolidated revenues and costs, including programming rights expenses and interest on debt, are divided across a range of currencies. As a result, while we anticipate revenues to increase in 2015 in our functional currencies, a strengthening of the dollar may negatively impact reported revenues when translated from our functional currencies to dollars. In addition, a significant portion of our programming content is purchased pursuant to dollar-denominated agreements. If the dollar appreciates against our functional currencies, such content costs may be adversely affected. Furthermore, the 2017 Euro Term Loan is denominated in Euros. We have not attempted to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the principal amount of this loan and therefore may experience significant gains and losses on the translation of the 2017 Euro Term Loan and related interest payments into dollars. General market conditions or the global macroeconomic environment may increase our exposure to currency fluctuations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness and may not be able to obtain favorable refinancing terms.We face the risk that we will not be able to renew, repay or refinance our indebtedness when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be on better terms than those of such indebtedness being refinanced. Following the financing transactions concluded in 2014, including the issuance of the 2017 PIK Notes, the drawdown of the 2017 Term Loan, drawings under the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the drawdown of the 2017 Euro Term Loan, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including approximately US$ 261.0 million of 2015 Convertible Notes that mature on November 15, 2015. Pursuant to the 2015 Refinancing Commitment Letter, Time Warner has committed to provide or assist with arranging a loan facility to refinance the 2015 Convertible Notes at or immediately prior to their maturity, subject to customary closing conditions (including the execution and delivery of documentation, the accuracy of representations, the absence of events of default and the absence of material adverse changes). Under the 2017 Term Loan Agreement, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, and the Reimbursement Agreement, we can incur only limited amounts of additional indebtedness, which includes indebtedness incurred to refinance existing indebtedness. In addition, the acquisition by Time Warner (or any other person or group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) of more than 50% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock would constitute a fundamental change under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. If such a fundamental change occurs, we would need to repurchase or refinance the 2015 Convertible Notes in the event the holders thereof exercise their repurchase option under the indenture governing the 2015 Convertible Notes. As a result, we may not be able to repurchase or refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. In the event we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may be subject to changes in tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities.We are subject to taxes in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to regular review and audit by tax authorities, and in the ordinary course of our business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In that regard, Pro TV and our production services companies SC Mediapro Studiorile SA (“MPS”), which is classified as a discontinued operation in our financial statements, and SC Media Pro Entertainment Romania SA (“MPE”), which has limited trading, are being audited by the Romanian tax authorities, although the tax audits of MPS and MPE have been suspended. At the present time we are unable to determine when the Romanian tax authorities will complete their audits or what assessments may be issued, or estimate what the amount of any such assessments may be; however, it is possible that the authorities may complete their audit of Pro TV during the second quarter of 2015. We believe that upon completion of these audits the Romanian tax authorities will assess certain payroll taxes, penalties and interest in respect of the manner in which individuals retained directly by Pro TV, MPS and MPE were engaged and have provided US$ 12.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 for this. It is likely that additional amounts, which may be material, in respect of additional payroll tax liabilities and non-deductible VAT, plus related interest and penalties, will be levied by the Romanian tax authorities upon completion of these audits. For additional information see Part II, Item 8, Note 21 “Commitments and Contingencies”. The final determination of tax audits and any related proceedings could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. The results of the audits of Pro TV and, once the suspensions are lifted, of MPS and MPE, are likely to include additional taxes, fines, interest and other penalties, and may, in the event the tax authority concludes that there is serious misconduct, result in criminal proceedings. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for taxes. Economic and political pressures to increase receipts in various jurisdictions may make taxation and tax rates subject to significant change and the satisfactory resolution of any tax disputes more difficult. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 10IndexThere is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect that our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be insufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service obligations. Our 2015 Convertible Notes mature on November 15, 2015. We have entered into the 2015 Refinancing Commitment Letter with Time Warner pursuant to which Time Warner has committed to provide or assist with arranging a replacement facility to refinance the 2015 Convertible Notes at or immediately prior to their maturity. Once the transaction contemplated under the 2015 Refinancing Commitment Letter has completed, we believe we will have adequate cash resources to continue operating as a going concern for the foreseeable future, however funding of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions (including the execution and delivery of documentation, the accuracy of representations, the absence of events of default and the absence of material adverse changes), certain of which are outside our direct control. As a result, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2014 contains an explanatory paragraph relating to our ability to continue as a going concern. If the financing arrangements set forth in the 2015 Refinancing Commitment Letter are not completed and we are unable to secure additional financing, we will be unable to meet our repayment obligation when the 2015 Convertible Notes mature.A default by us in connection with our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business.Pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the 2015 Convertible Notes and the 2017 PIK Notes and the agreements governing the 2017 Term Loan, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the Reimbursement Agreement, we pledged all of the shares of Central European Media Enterprises B.V. and of CME Media Enterprises B.V., which together own substantially all of the interests in our operating subsidiaries, as security for this indebtedness. If we or our restricted subsidiaries were to default under the terms of any of the relevant indentures or agreements, the secured parties under such indentures and agreements would have the ability to sell all or a portion of the assets pledged to them in order to pay amounts outstanding under such debt instruments. Such an event could result in our inability to conduct our business.The investigation by the Romanian authorities into conduct by employees of MPS and MPE may result in the imposition of material fines.The prosecutors’ office of the Bucharest Tribunal is investigating certain suppliers of MPS and MPE as well as certain current and former employees of MPS on suspicion of tax evasion and related charges. For additional information, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. While neither MPS nor MPE is currently a subject of the investigation or a party to the proceedings and no formal charges against or indictment of any of the persons who have been detained or are under investigation has been made, the prosecuting authorities in Romania may take action against MPS or MPE in the future. These actions could include criminal and civil fines, penalties, damages, seizure of bank accounts or other assets, a temporary suspension of activity, or other actions or restrictions. Depending on the development of these investigations, we may be required to accrue significant amounts, including, among others, for fines, penalties, or other damages that may be imposed by the Romanian authorities. MPS and MPE are cooperating with the Bucharest public prosecutor’s office in its investigations of these matters. At this point, these investigations are incomplete and, as a result, we cannot predict when they will be completed or what their outcome will be, including whether MPS or MPE will be joined to the proceedings either as a defendant or a civilly liable party or whether any fines, penalties, or other damages will be imposed on MPS or MPE in that event or the amount of such fines, penalties or other damages. In the event material fines, penalties, or other damages are imposed on MPS or MPE, they would experience difficulties continuing to operate and may need to cease operations entirely if necessary third party financing cannot be secured. Any material fines, penalties, or other damages imposed on MPS or MPE may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, responding to the requests of governmental authorities and cooperating with their investigation will continue to divert our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business.We may not be successful in continuing our attempts to diversify and enhance our revenues.We are focused on creating additional revenue streams from our broadcast operations as well as enhancing revenues generated from broadcast advertising, which is how we generate most of our revenues. Our main efforts with respect to this strategy are on increasing carriage fees from cable and satellite operators for carriage of our channels as well as continuing to seek improvements in advertising pricing. During prior negotiations to implement our carriage fees strategy, some cable and satellite operators suspended the broadcast of our channels, which affects the reach and audience shares of those operations and as a result, advertising revenues. There is a risk that operators may refuse to carry our channels while carriage fee negotiations are ongoing or that clients withdraw advertising from our channels or reduce spending as a result of reduced coverage, or that going forward we will not be successful in renewing carriage fee agreements on the same or better terms, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If we are ineffective in achieving further carriage fee increases, our profitability will continue to be dependent primarily on television advertising revenues, which increases the importance placed on our ability to generate advertising revenues. There can be no assurances that these initiatives will ultimately be successful, and if unsuccessful, this may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.A further downgrading of our ratings may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing.Moody’s Investors Service rates our corporate credit as Caa1, with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates our corporate credit B+, with a stable outlook. These ratings reflect each agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations as they become due. Credit rating agencies view liquidity and the key ratios associated with it, such as gross leverage ratio, a particular priority. Our refinancing of the 2016 Fixed Rate Notes and the 2017 Fixed Rate Notes will reduce our cash interest costs. However, we may be subject to downgrades if we fail to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. In the event our debt or corporate credit ratings are lowered by the ratings agencies, it will be more difficult for us to refinance our existing indebtedness or raise new indebtedness that may be permitted under our indentures or the 2017 Term Loan Agreement, the 2017 Revolving Loan Agreement, and the Reimbursement Agreement, and we will have to pay higher interest rates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.If our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are required to be assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates in our markets, reduced expected future cash flows, increased country risk premium as a result of political uncertainty and a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We consider available current information when calculating our impairment charge. If there are indicators of impairment, our long-term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. See Item 8, Note 4, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" for the carrying amounts of goodwill in each of our reporting units. 11IndexChanges to our business could result in future costs or charges.We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including economic conditions, industry changes and technological developments. In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, business or assets in order to optimize our cost structure and capture operating efficiencies. For example, we incurred charges of approximately US$ 9.9 million related to restructuring in 2014 and US$ 18.5 million in 2013 and total severance costs of approximately US$ 7.1 million during 2013. We expect to pursue limited restructuring initiatives in 2015 and expect to incur related restructuring charges. Similar events in the future could also result in restructuring and other charges and the incurrence of additional costs or may require significant management time to implement. If any such charges are material, they could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our OperationsProgramming content may become more expensive to produce or acquire or we may not be able to develop or acquire content that is attractive to our audiences.Television programming is one of the most significant components of our operating costs. The ability of programming to generate advertising revenues depends substantially on our ability to develop, produce or acquire programming that matches audience tastes and attracts high audience shares, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program depends on several tangible and intangible factors, including the impact of competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior, and general economic conditions. While our content costs decreased in 2014 compared to 2013, the cost of acquiring content attractive to our viewers, such as feature films and popular television series and formats, may increase in the future. Our expenditures in respect of locally produced programming may also increase due to competition for talent and other necessary resources and changes in audience tastes in our markets as well as from the implementation of any new laws and regulations mandating the broadcast of a greater number of locally produced programs. In addition, we typically acquire syndicated programming rights under multi-year commitments before we can predict whether such programming will perform well in our markets. In the event any such programming does not attract adequate audience share, it may be necessary to increase our expenditures by investing in additional programming, subject to the availability of adequate financial resources, as well as to write down the value of any underperforming programming, as was the case in certain of our operating segments in 2013 and 2014. Any material increase in content costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium.We generate most of our revenues from the sale of our advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. Television competes with various other media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising, for advertising spending. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media in our markets. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that changes in the regulatory environment or improvements in technology will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media and distribution could result in a decline in the appeal of television as an advertising medium generally or of our channels specifically. A decline in television advertising spending as a component of total advertising spending in any period or in specific markets would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our businesses are vulnerable to significant changes in technology that could adversely affect us.The television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analog terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital terrestrial television (“DTT”) broadcasting, direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, have changed consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences and the methods for the distribution, storage and consumption of content. This has fragmented television audiences in more developed markets and could adversely affect our ability to retain audience share and attract advertisers as such technologies penetrate our markets. Furthermore, substantial investment and the commitment of other resources has been required to implement DTT broadcasting and secure distribution in advance of knowing the take up of DTT broadcasting versus competing alternative distribution systems, such as direct-to-home platforms. We may not receive an adequate return on such investment if the take up of DTT broadcasting is lower than expected. Business initiatives to expand our distribution capabilities to adapt to changing patterns of consumption of content may not develop into profitable business models. New technologies that enable viewers to choose when, how, where and what content to watch, as well as to fast-forward or skip advertisements, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could impact our businesses. In addition, compression techniques and other technological developments allow for an increase in the number of channels that may be broadcast in our markets and expanded programming offerings that may be offered to highly targeted audiences. Reductions in the cost of launching additional channels could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly targeted niche programming on various distribution platforms. Our television broadcasting operations may be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to ensure necessary access to new broadcasting technologies or distribution systems. In addition, an expansion in competition due to technological innovation may increase competition for audiences and advertising revenue as well as the competitive demand for programming. Any requirement for substantial further investment to address competition that arises on account of technological innovations in broadcasting may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Piracy of our content may decrease revenues we can earn from our content and adversely impact our business and profitability.Piracy of our content poses significant challenges in our markets. Technological developments, including digital copying, file compressing, the use of international proxies and the growing penetration of high bandwidth internet connections, have made it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats. Furthermore, there are a growing number of video streaming sites, increasing the risk of online transmission of our content without consent. The proliferation of such sites broadcasting content pirated from us could result in a reduction of revenues that we receive from the legitimate distribution of our content, including through video-on-demand and other services. Protection of our intellectual property is in large part dependent on the manner in which applicable intellectual property laws in the countries in which we operate are construed and enforced. We seek to limit the threat of content piracy. However, detecting and policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is often difficult and remedies may be limited under applicable law. Steps we take may not prevent the infringement by third parties. There can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce our rights and protect our intellectual property will be successful in preventing piracy, which limits our ability to generate revenues from our content. 12IndexWe rely on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could harm our business or our reputation.We make extensive use of network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our internal network management as well as our broadcasting operations. These systems are central to many of our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, malicious activities or other security breaches could result in a disruption or degradation of our services, the loss of information or the improper disclosure of personal data. The occurrence of any of these events could negatively impact our business by requiring us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or by harming our reputation. In addition, improper disclosure of personal data could subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data in the countries in which we operate. The development and maintenance of systems to prevent these events from occurring requires ongoing monitoring and updating as efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As technologies evolve, we will need to expend additional resources to protect our technology and information systems, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Our operations are in developing markets where there are additional risks, including political and economic uncertainty, biased treatment and loss of business.Our revenue-generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe where we must comply with various laws and other regulatory obligations related to our businesses. Compliance with foreign as well as applicable U.S. laws and regulations, such as broadcasting content and advertising regulations, competition regulations, tax laws, employment laws, data protection requirements, and anti-corruption laws, increases the costs of doing business in these jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by the Company’s employees, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. The Company may also be significantly affected by other risks that may be different to those posed by investments in more developed markets, including, but not limited to, social and political instability, inconsistent regulatory or judicial practice, and increased taxes and other costs. The economic and political systems, legal and tax regimes, regulatory practices, standards of corporate governance and business practices of countries in this region continue to develop. Policies and practices may be subject to significant adjustments, including following changes in political leadership. This may result in social or political instability or disruptions and the potential for political influence on the media as well as inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, arbitrary treatment before regulatory or judicial authorities and other general business risks. As a result, there may be legal and regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, that require us to incur substantial costs, cause us to change our business practices, or expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, including fines and other penalties that may be substantial, which would have a material adverse effect on our business financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Other potential risks inherent in markets with evolving economic and political environments include exchange controls, higher taxes, tariffs and other levies as well as longer payment cycles. The relative level of development of our markets and the influence of local politics also present a potential for biased treatment of us before regulators or courts in the event of disputes involving our investments. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately, this could lead to the loss of one or more of our business operations. The loss of a material business would have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may not be aware of all related party transactions, which may involve risks of conflicts of interest that result in transactions being concluded on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arm’s-length transactions.In our markets, the officers, general directors, other members of the management or employees of our operating companies have other business interests, including interests in television and other media-related companies. We may not be aware of all business interests or relationships that exist with respect to entities with which our operating companies enter into transactions. Transactions with companies, whether or not we are aware of any business relationship between our employees and third parties, may present conflicts of interest which may in turn result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arm’s-length. It is likely that we and our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. In the event there are transactions with persons who subsequently are determined to be related parties or affiliates, we may be required to make additional disclosure and, if such contracts are material, may not be in compliance with certain covenants under the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes, the 2017 Term Loan Agreement, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility or the Reimbursement Agreement. Any related party transaction that is entered into on terms that are not arm’s-length may result in a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation.We require broadcasting and, in some cases, other operating licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets in order to conduct our broadcasting business. Our broadcasting licenses for our operations in Slovenia and the Slovak Republic are valid for indefinite time periods and our other broadcasting licenses expire at various times through 2026. While we expect that our material licenses and authorizations will be renewed or extended as required to continue to operate our business, including the granting of digital licenses to Pro TV in Romania as that country transitions from analog to digital broadcasting later this year, we cannot guarantee that this will occur or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in markets where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or with applications filed in respect thereto may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise being terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that renewals or extensions of existing licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of any other broadcasting or operating licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the media industry and have made important contributions to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows. 13IndexRisks Relating to Enforcement RightsWe are a Bermuda company and enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult.We are a Bermuda company. Substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States. In addition, several of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (a) judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal and state securities laws or (b) in original actions brought in such countries, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States federal and state securities laws.Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action in Bermuda, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken or concurred in by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.Risks Relating to our Common StockOur share price may be adversely affected by sales of unregistered shares or future issuances of our shares.Time Warner is the largest holder of shares of our Class A common stock, holding 61,407,775 unregistered shares of Class A common stock, one share of Series A preferred stock, 200,000 shares of Series B preferred stock and warrants to acquire 100,926,996 shares of our Class A common stock (the "TW Warrants"). The share of Series A preferred stock is convertible into 11,211,449 shares of Class A common stock. The shares of Series B preferred stock are convertible into shares of Class A common stock from June 25, 2016 at the option of Time Warner (subject to certain exceptions). As of December 31, 2014, the 200,000 shares of Series B preferred stock were convertible into 92,363,397 shares of Class A common stock. The TW Warrants are convertible into shares of Class A common stock from May 2, 2016 until May 2, 2018, subject to the right of Time Warner to exercise such warrants prior to May 2, 2016 in certain circumstances. Time Warner has registration rights with respect to all its shares of Class A common stock now held or hereafter acquired. Furthermore, there are additional unregistered shares of our Class A common stock outstanding and shares of Class A common stock underlying other warrants that may enter into trading. For additional information on the Series A preferred stock, Series B preferred stock and TW Warrants, see Part II, Item 8, Note 12 "Convertible Redeemable Preferred Shares" and Note 13 "Equity."We cannot predict what effect, if any, the entry into trading of previously issued unregistered shares of Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our shares. We may also issue additional shares of Class A common stock or securities convertible into our equity in the future. If more shares of our Class A common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock) are issued to Time Warner, the economic interests of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected.The interests of Time Warner may conflict with the interests of other investors.Time Warner is able to exercise voting power in us with respect to 49.6% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. As such, Time Warner is in a position to exercise significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors or certain transactions. Following the issuance of the TW Warrants, the aggregate economic interest of Time Warner in us is approximately 75.3%, (without giving effect to the accretion of the Series B Preferred Stock after December 31, 2014). Furthermore, following the series of financing transactions conducted in 2014, Time Warner has the right to appoint one less than the number required to constitute a majority of our board of directors, provided that Time Warner continues to own not less than 40% of the voting power of the Company. In addition, we are party to an amended investor rights agreement with Time Warner and the other parties thereto under which, among other things, Time Warner was granted a contractual preemptive right (subject to certain exclusions) with respect to issuances of the Company’s equity securities, which permits it to maintain its pro rata economic interest. Under Bermuda law, there is no takeover code or similar legislation requiring an acquirer of a certain percentage of our Class A Common Stock to tender for the remaining publically held shares. In certain circumstances, the interests of Time Warner as our largest shareholder could be in conflict with the interests of minority shareholders.Furthermore, following the issuance of the 2017 PIK Notes, the drawdown of the 2017 Term Loan and the issuance of the TW Guarantee in respect of the 2017 Euro Term Loan, Time Warner is, in addition to being our largest shareholder, our largest secured creditor, as it holds or guarantees 68.9% of our outstanding indebtedness as at December 31, 2014. Subject to certain exceptions under the indenture for the 2017 PIK Notes that limit Time Warner’s voting rights as a holder of the 2017 PIK Notes, Time Warner will be entitled to vote or otherwise make decisions in its capacity as a holder of the 2017 PIK Notes, as a lender under the 2017 Term Loan and the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility or as a guarantor under the Reimbursement Agreement. The 2017 Term Loan, the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and the Reimbursement Agreement contain maintenance covenants in respect of interest cover, cash flow cover and total leverage ratios and have more restrictive provisions than equivalent provisions contained in the indenture governing the 2017 PIK Notes, including covenants in respect of the incurrence of indebtedness (including refinancing indebtedness), the provision of guarantees, making investments and granting security and certain events of default. As such, Time Warner may be in a position to determine whether to permit transactions, waive defaults or accelerate such indebtedness or take other steps in its capacity as a secured creditor in a manner that might not be consistent with the interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock or other holders of our indebtedness.The price of our Class A common stock is likely to remain volatile.The market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to Our Operations” as well as the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, license renewals, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the European Union, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, the volume of trading in shares of our Class A common stock, future issuances of shares of our Class A common stock and investors’ and securities analysts’ perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 14IndexITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.