ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-looking Statements" in Part I, Item 1. Our actual results in the future could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to our Business and Operations Our operating results are dependent on the importance of television as an advertising medium We generate almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising airtime on television channels in our markets. In the advertising market, television competes with various other advertising media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising. In all of the countries in which we operate, television constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending. There can be no assurances that the television advertising market will maintain its current position among advertising media or that changes in the regulatory environment will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition among advertising media arising from the development of new forms of advertising media could have an adverse effect on our maintaining and developing our advertising revenues and, as a result, on our results of operations and cash flows. Our advertising revenues depend on our stations’ technical reach, the pricing of advertising time, television viewing levels, changes in audience preferences, shifts in population and other demographics, technological developments relating to media and broadcasting, competition from other broadcasters and other media operators, and seasonal trends in the advertising market in the countries in which we operate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to respond successfully to such developments. Any decline in the appeal of television generally or of our channels specifically, whether as a result of the growth in popularity of other forms of media or a decline in the attractiveness of television as an advertising medium, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our broadcasting licenses may not be renewed and may be subject to revocation We require broadcasting and, in some cases, distribution licenses as well as other authorizations from national regulatory authorities in our markets in order to conduct our broadcasting business. Our current broadcasting licenses expire at various times between 2006 and 2017, including the broadcasting license in the Slovak Republic, for which we have applied for renewal in February 2006, and the broadcasting license covering fifteen hours (primarily prime and off prime time) in Ukraine which expires in December 2006. We cannot guarantee that our current licenses or other authorizations will be renewed or that they will not be subject to revocation, particularly in Ukraine, where there is relatively greater political risk as a result of less developed political and legal institutions. The failure to comply in all material respects with the terms of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations may result in such licenses or other authorizations not being renewed or otherwise terminated. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that new licenses will be issued, that extensions of licenses will be issued on the same terms as existing licenses or that further restrictions or conditions will not be imposed in the future. Any non-renewal or termination of broadcasting licenses or other authorizations or material modification of the terms of any renewed licenses may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not have management control of our affiliate in Ukraine and could lose our contractual rights We own certain of our operations through subsidiaries and affiliates jointly with strategic partners. We have management control over the subsidiaries in which we have a majority interest. However, in the license company for the Studio 1+1 Group in Ukraine, in which we hold only an indirect 18% ownership interest, we do not have an ownership interest that is sufficient to allow us to assert management control and affirmatively direct the operations, strategies and financial decisions of this company and rely principally on contractual rights to protect and maintain our 60% beneficial interest in Studio 1+1. Therefore, without the consent of our partners, we may be unable to cause this company to distribute funds, to implement strategies or to make programming decisions that we might favor. Page 28 Table of Contents In addition, the 70% ownership interest in Studio 1+1 that is held by our partner Alexander Rodnyansky is the subject of litigation in Ukraine (see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings, Ukraine”). In the event of an adverse outcome which results in the ownership of 70% of Studio 1+1 being transferred from Mr. Rodnyanksy to the claimant Igor Kolomoiski pursuant to a court decision, we may not be able to secure and enforce our contractual rights to a 60% economic interest in Studio 1+1 or rights related to the governance of Studio 1+1 against Mr. Kolomoiski. A reduction in our right to future distributable cash from Studio 1+1 would have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We have a history of net operating losses and our operations may not be profitable in the future The year ended December 31, 2004 was the first year in which we recorded net income from continuing operations. In preceding years since our incorporation, we recorded net operating losses from continuing operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of US$ 45.0 million. Our ability to generate operating profits and net income in the future will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to generate advertising revenues, which is affected by our ability to attract and maintain audiences, to develop additional revenue streams and to control costs in all areas of our operations. Although we intend to continue to invest in the acquisition of new channels and the development of further thematic channels, such investments may not be successful and we may incur significant losses in the future. Our ability to generate operating profits and net income from our operations is also affected by a number of external factors over which we have no control, such as the level of economic growth, general economic conditions and consumer and advertising spending in our markets. Our operating results are dependent on general economic conditions The results of our operations rely heavily on advertising revenue, and demand for advertising is affected by prevailing general economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions generally and downturns in the economies of our operating countries specifically are likely to negatively impact the advertising industries in those countries and, consequently, the results of our operations. Declines in the level of business activity of our advertising customers may have a material adverse effect in the future on our revenues and results of operations. Although recently there has been growth in the economies of our operating countries, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue or that any such improvement in general economic conditions will generate increased advertising revenue for our group. Global and local downturns in the general economic environment may cause our customers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could result in a decrease in demand for our advertising airtime. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our increased debt service obligations following the acquisition of the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group may adversely affect our business Following the consummation of the acquisition of the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group, our leverage has been significantly increased with the issuance of Euro 370 million (US$ 436.4 million at December 31, 2005) fixed and floating Senior Notes (see Part II, Item 8, Note 5, “Senior Notes”). As a result, we have significant debt service obligations and we are restricted in the manner in which our business is conducted. We anticipate that our high leverage will continue for the foreseeable future. Our high leverage could have important consequences to our business and results of operations, including but not limited to the following: our vulnerability to a downturn in our business or economic and industry conditions has increased; our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business opportunities and other corporate requirements has been limited; we may have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which means that this cash flow is not available to fund our operations, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment and the industry in which we operate has been limited. Any of these or other consequences or events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and would therefore have potentially harmful consequences for the development of our business and strategic plan. Page 29 Table of Contents Our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for future debt service obligations Our ability to make debt service payments under our Senior Notes issued in connection with the acquisition of the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group depends on our future operating performance and our ability to generate sufficient cash, which in turn depends in part on factors that are not within our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, market, legislative, regulatory and other factors. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we would face substantial liquidity problems and we may be obliged to reduce or delay capital or other material expenditures at our stations, restructure our debt, obtain additional debt or equity capital (if available on acceptable terms), or dispose of material assets or businesses to meet our debt service and other obligations. It may not be possible to accomplish any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. We are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in exchange rates Our reporting currency is the US dollar but a significant portion of our consolidated revenues and costs are in other currencies, including programming rights expenses and interest on debt. Furthermore, our functional currency in Romania and Ukraine is the US dollar. This is subject to annual review in accordance with FAS 52 “Foreign Currency Translation” and new circumstances that may be identified during these annual reviews may result in use of functional currencies in these markets that differ from our reporting currency. In addition, our Senior Notes are denominated in the Euro currency. Changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. For a detailed analysis of our exposure to exchange rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. Our operations are in developing markets where there is a risk of economic uncertainty, biased treatment and loss of business Our revenue generating operations are located in Central and Eastern Europe. Countries in this region have economic, legal and tax systems, standards of corporate governance, business practices and political systems that continue to develop. Government policies could be altered significantly, especially in the event of a change in leadership, and the risk of the occurrence of social or political disruption or unforeseen circumstances affecting economic, political or social life is greater than in Western economies. Legal and regulatory systems could be subject to political pressures. These markets present different risks from those posed by investments in developed markets, including potential instability, legal and economic risks, potential political influence on media, inconsistent application of tax and legal regulations, and other general business risks. In addition, we operate in most of our markets with local shareholders, which presents a potential for biased treatment of us by local regulators or before the local courts in the event of disputes involving our local shareholders or our investments. If such a dispute occurs, those regulators or those courts might favor local interests over our interests. Ultimately this could lead to loss of our business operations, as occurred in the Czech Republic in 1999. Our holding company structure may limit our access to cash We are a holding company and we conduct our operations through subsidiaries and affiliates. The primary internal source of our cash to fund our operating expenses as well as service our existing and future debt depends on debt repayments from our subsidiaries, the earnings of our operating subsidiaries and earnings generated from our equity interest in certain of our affiliates and distributions of such earnings to us. Substantially all of our assets consist of shares in and loans to our subsidiaries. We currently rely on the repayment of inter-company indebtedness and the declaration of dividends to receive distributions of cash from our operating subsidiaries and affiliates. The distribution of dividends is generally subject to conformity with requirements of local law, including the funding of a reserve account, and, in certain instances, the affirmative vote of our partners. If our operating subsidiaries or affiliates are unable to distribute to us funds to which we are entitled, we may be unable to cover our operating expenses. Such inability would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Page 30 Table of Contents We may require additional external sources of capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms The acquisition, ownership and operation of television broadcasting operations requires substantial capital investment. Our total capital requirements are based on our estimates of future operating results, which are based on a variety of assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, if our assumptions or plans change, or if our costs increase due to unanticipated competitive pressures or other unanticipated developments, we may need to obtain additional financing. Sources of financing may include public or private debt or equity financings, proceeds from the sale of assets or other financing arrangements. Any additional equity or equity-linked financings may dilute the economic interest of the holders of our Common Stock. In addition, it is not possible to ensure that such financings will be available within the limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness contained in the Indenture pursuant to which our Senior Notes were issued. Furthermore, such financings may not be available on acceptable terms, or may be subject to limits on the incurrence of indebtedness under the Indenture. Our related party transactions may involve risks of conflicts of interest and delayed payments resulting in the conclusion of transactions on less favorable terms than could be obtained in arms length transactions and the risk of a negative impact on cashflow In Romania, the Slovak Republic and Ukraine, the local shareholders of our television operating companies are individuals with other business interests in those countries, including interests in media related companies. In Romania our general director is also a shareholder in our company. Our local operating companies enter into transactions with parties related to our local shareholders and general directors, including barter transactions. We also have one loan outstanding to one of our local shareholders which was negotiated on arms length terms. Some or all of these transactions may present conflicts of interest that may in turn result in the conclusion of transactions on terms that are not arms length. In addition, some related party receivables have been collected more slowly than unrelated third party receivables which has resulted in slower cashflow to our operating companies to the detriment of our shareholders. It is likely that our subsidiaries will continue to enter into related party transactions in the future. As a result, there is a continuing risk that related party transactions will have a negative impact on cashflows. We may not be able to prevent our general directors from entering into transactions that are outside their authority and not in the best interests of shareholders The general directors of our operating companies have significant management authority on a local level, subject to the overall supervision by the corresponding company board of directors. In the past, our internal controls have detected transactions that have been concluded by a general director acting outside his authority. Internal controls are not able to prevent a general director from acting outside his authority, particularly if a related party relationship remains undisclosed to us. There is therefore a risk that a general director may act outside his authority and that our operating companies will enter into transactions that are not duly authorized. Unauthorized transactions may not be in the best interests of our shareholders and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Page 31 Table of Contents Our business is subject to significant changes in technology that could adversely affect our business The television broadcasting industry may be affected by rapid changes in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than analogue terrestrial broadcasting, such as digital broadcasting, cable and satellite distribution systems, could adversely affect our businesses. Television broadcasting markets may face further competition from, and could be required to expend substantial financial and managerial resources on, the implementation of new broadcasting technologies. Countries in which we have operations have plans to migrate from analogue terrestrial broadcasting to digital terrestrial broadcasting. Each country has independent plans with differing time frames and regulatory regimes. The specific timing in any country is not fully known and we cannot predict the effect of such migration on our existing operations or predict our ability to receive any additional rights to broadcast if such additional rights should be required under any relevant regulatory regime. We may be required to commit substantial financial and other resources to the implementation of new technologies. We may be required to make substantial additional capital investment in order to implement digital terrestrial broadcasting and the use of alternative distribution systems may require us to acquire additional distribution and content rights. In light of our increased leverage position following the acquisition of the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group, we may not have access to resources sufficient to make such investments. We may not be able to enforce our indemnification rights in a timely manner Under the purchase agreement for the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group, PPF and certain of its affiliates have agreed to indemnify us for a limited period of time up to the full amount of the purchase price paid by us for the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group for a series of events and circumstances, including claims relating to taxes and claims brought by certain former shareholders of the TV Nova (Czech Republic) group. If we make an indemnification claim and we do not receive an indemnification payment or if such payment is delayed or contested, it may have a material adverse effect on our ability to make any required repayments under the terms of the Senior Notes or other indebtedness or may adversely affect our results of operations. Enforcement of civil liabilities and judgments may be difficult Central European Media Enterprises Ltd. is a Bermuda company, and substantially all of our assets and all of our operations are located, and all of our revenues are derived, outside the United States of America. In addition, several of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States of America, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are or may be located outside the United States of America. As a result, investors may be unable to effect service of process within the United States of America upon such persons, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States of America courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States of America federal and state securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda and the countries in which we operate would enforce (i) judgments of United States of America courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States of America federal and state securities laws or (ii) in original actions brought in such countries, as applicable, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the United States of America federal and state securities laws. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our Common Stock is likely to remain volatile The market price of our Common Stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risks Relating to our Business and Operations” and including the following: general economic and business trends, variations in quarterly operating results, regulatory developments in our operating countries and the EU, the condition of the media industry in our operating countries, future sales of shares of our Common Stock, investor and securities analyst perception of us and other companies that investors or securities analysts deem comparable in the television broadcasting industry. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of broadcasting companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. Page 32 Table of Contents Our share price may be adversely affected by potential future issuances and sales of our shares As at December 31, 2005, we have a total of 1.0 million options to purchase Class A Common Stock outstanding and 0.2 million options to purchase Class B Common Stock outstanding. An affiliate of PPF holds 3,500,000 unregistered shares of Class A Common Stock and has the right to demand a registration of up to 50% of such shares in May 2006 and up to 100% of such shares in May 2007. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the issuance of shares underlying options, the registration of such unregistered shares or any future sales of our shares will have on the market price of our shares. However, if more shares are issued, the economic interest of current shareholders may be diluted and the price of our shares may be adversely affected. There is a risk that we may become subject to the passive foreign investment company rules under United States tax laws We believe, but cannot assure, that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) under U.S. tax laws for the current or future years. If we were a PFIC, then each U.S. holder of our Class A Common Stock (other than a U.S. holder whose Class A Common Stock is otherwise marked-to-market for U.S. federal income tax purposes) generally would, upon certain distributions by us or upon disposition of the Class A Common Stock at a gain, be liable to pay tax at the then prevailing rates on ordinary income plus an interest charge, as if the distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. holder’s holding period for the Class A Common Stock, beginning with the year in which we become a PFIC. A U.S. holder could avoid the application of these rules by making a special tax election for the first year in which we become a PFIC, the effect of which generally would be to accelerate the electing U.S. holder’s recognition of income with respect to our Class A Common Stock. We intend to notify U.S. holders of our Class A Common Stock if we determine at any time that we have become or are about to become a PFIC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 33 Table of Contents ITEM 