Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An investor should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this filing before deciding to purchase the Company’s common stock. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and an investor could lose all or part of his investment. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A GENERAL DETERIORATION IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT CONSUMER AND CORPORATE SPENDING, AND THEREFORE SIGNIFICANTLY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business. The impact of slowdowns on our businesses is difficult to predict, but it may result in reductions in ticket sales and our ability to generate revenue. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in attendance at events that we are involved in the ticket sales, merchandising, or production and promotion. There is evidence that this is affecting demand for some of our products and services, and a continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. A sustained decline in economic conditions could result in a decline in attendance at or reduction in the number of live entertainment events, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. Many factors related to discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, fuel prices, interest, tax rates and inflation, can significantly impact our operating results. 8 WE HAVE INCURRED NET LOSSES AND MAY EXPERIENCE FUTURE NET LOSSES. Our operating results have been adversely affected by among other things, goodwill and intangible asset impairments and increased stock compensation expense related to obtaining access to the distribution rights of tickets to sporting, theatre and concert events. We incurred net losses of approximately $518,000, $34.7 million and $16.3 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We may face reduced demand for our entertainment offerings and other factors that could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. We cannot predict whether we will achieve profitability in future periods. CHANGES IN OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY OR RESTRUCTURING OF OUR BUSINESSES MAY INCREASE OUR COSTS OR OTHERWISE AFFECT PROFITABILITY OF OUR BUSINESSES. As changes to our business environment occur, we may need to adjust our business strategy to meet these changes, or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations or particular business assets. In addition, external events including acceptance of our theatrical offerings, our merchandise, and changes in macro-economic conditions may impair the value of our assets. When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets. We may also need to invest in businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low, and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. In any of these events, our costs may increase, and we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets, or returns on new investments may be lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring. CHANGES IN PUBLIC AND CONSUMER TASTES AND PREFERENCES FOR ENTERTAINMENT AND CONSUMER PRODUCTS COULD REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT OFFERINGS AND PRODUCTS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF OUR BUSINESSES. Our live entertainment and merchandising businesses create entertainment or consumer products whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create, purchase, present, promote, and distribute live entertainment and related consumer products that meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Our live entertainment and merchandising businesses are dependent on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences inside the United States, as well as in foreign countries. Moreover, we must often invest substantial amounts in live productions before we learn the extent to which these shows will earn consumer acceptance. If our live entertainment offerings and products do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue from subscription series and touring shows and related consumer products may decline and adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses. OUR FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS MAY NOT BE MET AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO ABANDON OR CURTAIL OUR BUSINESS PLANS. Our growth and expansion could be impaired by limitations on our access to capital markets. We may require additional capital to continue to expand the operations of Tix4Tonight, Exhibit Merchandising, and our live entertainment subsidiary Tix Productions Inc. To the extent that we are unable to secure the capital necessary to fund our future growth on a timely basis and/or under acceptable terms and conditions, we may not have sufficient cash resources to continue to expand our operations. Additionally, if the market for entertainment offerings were to weaken for an extended period of time, our ability to raise capital would be substantially reduced. There can be no assurances that capital from outside sources will be available; and if such financing is available, it may involve issuing securities senior to the common stock or equity financings which would be dilutive to holders of common stock. THERE IS A LIMITED PUBLIC MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK AND THE COMPANY’S STOCKHOLDERS MAY BE UNABLE TO LIQUIDATE THEIR SHARES OR COULD BE SUBJECT TO EXTREME VOLATILITY. Our common stock is listed on the The NASDAQ Capital Market and is quoted under the symbol “TIXC.” The NASDAQ Capital Market exists for securities of smaller, less-capitalized companies that do not qualify for inclusion in The NASDAQ National Market. There is limited volume of sales in our stock, thus providing limited liquidity into the market for the Company’s shares. As a result of the foregoing, stockholders may be unable to liquidate their shares or if a large volume of stock is being sold into the market at any one time, the price of our stock could rapidly decline. LOSS OF OUR KEY PROMOTERS, MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERSONNEL COULD RESULT IN THE LOSS OF KEY TOURS AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The entertainment industry is uniquely dependent upon personal relationships. As promoters and executives within the entertainment industry, we leverage our existing network of relationships with producers, promoters, and venue managers in order to secure the rights to distribute tickets, sell merchandise and secure the other resources that are critical to our success. Due to the importance of those industry contacts to our business, the loss of any of our producers, promoters, officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with many of those individuals to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their associations with key contacts. 9 OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO INTENSE COMPETITION AND COMPETITIVE PRESSURES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our three business segments operate in highly competitive market environments and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current share of entertainment revenues. We compete in the ticketing services, exhibit and branded merchandising, and live entertainment segments of the entertainment industry. In addition, our competitors compete with us for key employees who have relationships with the artists, theatre managers, promoters and producers we rely upon. These competitors may engage in more extensive development efforts, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and make more attractive offers to theatre managers, producers and promoters with whom we presently have relationships. Our competitors may develop services, advertising strategies and opportunities with entertainment venues that are equal or superior to those we provide and/or utilize or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we are able to achieve. Other variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenue, event attendance, ticket prices or profit margins include: · Unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, including increased guarantees to producers, promoters and venues, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers. · Our competitors may offer more favorable terms than we do in order to obtain agreements for new venues or to obtain events from venues they operate. · Other entertainment options available to our audiences may reduce our share of the overall entertainment market. · Competition in the specialized labor market we operate within may require us to spend more to retain key employees. · Unfavorable changes in the macro-economic environment may affect the ability of patrons to buy tickets and merchandise. · New competitors may enter our business segments as the barriers to entry are low. We believe that barriers to entry into the business segments that we compete are low and that certain local ticket brokers, promoters and producers are increasingly expanding the geographic scope of their operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MANAGE GROWTH WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Successful implementation of the Company’s business strategy requires the Company to manage its growth. Growth could place an increasing strain on the Company’s management and financial resources. To manage growth effectively, the Company will need to establish definitive business strategies, goals and objectives, install and maintain a system of management controls, and attract and retain qualified personnel, as well as develop, train and manage management-level and other employees. If the Company fails to manage its growth effectively, the Company’s business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected, and the Company’s stock price may decline accordingly. THE SUCCESS OF OUR TICKETING OPERATIONS DEPENDS IN PART ON THE INTEGRITY OF OUR SYSTEMS AND INFRASTRUCTURE. SYSTEM INTERRUPTION AND LACK OF INTEGRATION AND REDUNDANCY IN THESE SYSTEMS AND INFRASTRUCTURE MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The success of our ticketing operations depends in part on our ability to maintain the integrity of our system and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems, and distribution facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in the information systems and infrastructures of our ticketing operations may adversely affect our ability to process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable, or prevent us from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in the systems and infrastructures of our business, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of our business to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events, or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE PROCESSING, STORAGE, USE, AND DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL DATA COULD GIVE RISE TO LIABILITIES AS A RESULT OF GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION, CONFLICTING LEGAL REQUIREMENTS OR DIFFERING VIEWS OF PERSONAL PRIVACY. In the processing of consumer transactions, we receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the respective privacy and data security policies maintained by our business. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of the consumer and other user data collected by our business. The failure by us and/or the various third-party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of our business, discourage potential users from trying the products and services that we offer, and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY DOES NOT EXPECT TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have not declared or paid, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying in the foreseeable future, any cash dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon, among other things, our future earnings, if any, as well as our operating and financial condition, capital requirements, general business conditions and other pertinent factors. Furthermore, any payment of dividends by the Company is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, there is no assurance that any dividends will ever be paid on our common stock. DOING BUSINESS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES CREATES RISKS NOT FOUND IN DOING BUSINESS IN THE UNITED STATES. Our international operations accounted for approximately 1% of our revenues in 2009 and are expected to account for between 5% and 10% of our revenues in 2010. The risks involved in foreign operations that could result in losses, which we are not insured against include: · exposure to local economic conditions; · potential adverse changes in diplomatic relationships with the United States of America; · risks of renegotiations or modifications of existing agreements with governmental authorities; · diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; · withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and · changes in foreign taxation structures. In addition, we may incur substantial tax liabilities when we repatriate any of the cash generated by our international operations back to the United States due to our current inability to recognize any foreign tax credits that would be associated with repatriation of the funds. We currently expect to repatriate substantially all of the cash generated by our international operations. We are not currently in a position to recognize any tax assets in the United States that are the results of payment of income taxes or withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN OUR FUTURE ACQUISITIONS, IF ANY, WHICH MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESSES. Our future growth rate depends in part on our acquisitions of additional businesses. A significant portion of our recent and projected growth is expected to be growth attributable to acquisitions including Exhibit Merchandising, LLC, Magic Arts & Entertainment, LLC, and NewSpace Entertainment, Inc. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition targets or make further acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite government approvals. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with: · integrating the operations, financial reporting, technologies and personnel of acquired companies; · managing geographically dispersed operations; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no direct experience; and · the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operation, as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions that we may pursue could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. OUR EXISTING DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS HOLD A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK AND MAY BE ABLE TO PREVENT OTHER STOCKHOLDERS FROM INFLUENCING SIGNIFICANT CORPORATE DECISIONS. As of February 15, 2010, our directors and executive officers and principal shareholders beneficially owned or have the right to vote approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, will be able to direct the outcome of matters, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions, such as a merger with or into another company, a sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets, and amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with the Company’s interests or the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. 11 INCREASED COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires compliance with the corporate governance and securities disclosure requirements, and requires an ongoing review of our internal control procedures. These requirements could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of the board of directors, or qualified executives officers. In addition, director and officer liability insurance for public companies like us has become more difficult and more expensive to obtain, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur higher costs to obtain coverage that is satisfactory to us and our officers and directors. We continue to evaluate and monitor regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing and magnitude of additional costs we may incur as a result. If in any year we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. IF DETERIORATION OF THE ECONOMY CONTINUES, THIS COULD CAUSE ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL AND STOCK MARKET DECLINES, WHICH COULD LEAD TO REDUCED EARNINGS AND COULD RESULT IN FUTURE GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENTS. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill and intangible assets of $33.1 million related to our acquisition of EM. As of December 31, 2009, we have remaining goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions of John’s Tickets, LLC, EM, Magic and NewSpace of $10.4 million. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and increased costs, we may have further goodwill impairments. For additional information, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 