D. Risk Factors. This section describes the risks that we currently believe may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this annual report and the cautionary statements on page i. The risks below are not the only ones we face — some risks may be unknown to us, and some risks that we do not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material. Although we will be making all reasonable efforts to mitigate or minimize these risks, one or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, revenues, sales, and net assets, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and prospects. Risk associated with Our Business and the Automotive Industry. Deterioration in global economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. The automotive industry, and the demand for automobiles, are influenced by general economic conditions, including among other things, rates of economic growth, availability of credit, disposable income of consumers, interest rates, environmental and tax policies, safety regulations, freight rates and fuel and commodity prices. Negative trends in any of these factors impacting the regions where we operate could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Indian automotive industry is affected materially by the general economic conditions in India and around the world. Muted industrial growth in India during Fiscal 2014 along with continuing higher inflation and interest rates continue to pose risks to overall growth in this market. The automotive industry in general is cyclical and economic slowdowns in the recent past have affected the manufacturing sector, including the automotive and related industries in India. A continuation of negative economic trends or further deterioration in key economic factors such as growth rate, interest rates and inflation as well as reduced availability of financing for vehicles at competitive rates could materially and adversely affect our automotive sales in India and results of operations. 3 Table of Contents Our Jaguar Land Rover business has significant operations in the United Kingdom, North America, continental Europe and China, as well as sales operations in many major countries across the globe. The global economic downturn significantly impacted the global automotive markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, including the United Kingdom, where our Jaguar Land Rover operations have significant sales exposure. During Fiscal 2014, the automotive market in the United Kingdom and Europe continued to experience challenges. Confidence in financial markets and general consumer confidence have been further eroded by recent political tensions in North Africa, the Middle East and Ukraine, and concerns of an economic slowdown in China. Our strategy with respect to our Jaguar Land Rover operations, which includes new product launches and expansion in growing markets such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, may not be sufficient to mitigate the decrease in demand for our products in established markets and this could have a significant adverse impact on our financial performance. If industry demand softens because of lower or negative economic growth in key markets, including China, or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Restrictive covenants in our financing agreements may limit our operations and financial flexibility and materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of our financing agreements and debt arrangements set limits on and/or require us to obtain lender consent before, among other things, pledging assets as security. In addition, certain financial covenants may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to incur additional liens. In the past, we have been able to obtain required lender consent for such activities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such consents in the future. If our liquidity needs or growth plans require such consents and such consents are not obtained, we may be forced to forego or alter our plans, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event we breach these covenants, the outstanding amounts due under such financing agreements could become due and payable immediately and/or result in increased costs. A default under one of these financing agreements may also result in cross-defaults under other financing agreements and result in the outstanding amounts under such other financing agreements becoming due and payable immediately. Defaults under one or more of our financing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In Fiscal 2013, we were in breach of two financial covenants relating to our ratio of total outstanding liability to tangible net worth and the other relating to our debt service coverage ratio in bank guarantees relating to our 2009 non-convertible Indian rupee debentures, which could potentially result in increased costs under these guarantees. We have requested and obtained waivers of our obligations to pay additional costs as a consequence of such breaches. In Fiscal 2014, we are in breach of one financial covenant relating to our ratio of total outstanding liability to tangible net worth, which has also been waived by the lenders and has not resulted in any default or penalties. As per the terms of the bank guarantee agreement, a breach of one covenant is not an event of default and also does not require us to pay increased costs for these guarantees. However, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining consents or waivers in the future from our lenders or guarantors, or that our lenders and guarantors will not impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us, or otherwise seek to modify the terms of our existing loan agreements in ways that are materially adverse to us. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Loan Covenants.” Exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates with reference to countries in which we operate. We import capital equipment, raw materials and components from, manufacture vehicles in, and sell vehicles into, various countries, and therefore our revenues and costs have significant exposure to the relative movements of the GBP, the US dollar, the Euro, the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen and the Indian rupee. In particular, the Indian rupee declined significantly relative to the US dollar during Fiscal 2014. As of August 28, 2013, the value of the Indian rupee against the US dollar was Rs. 68.80 = US$1.00, following a depreciation of approximately 28.2%, as compared to Rs.53.65 = US $1.00 on May 1, 2013, based on the exchange rate for Indian rupees in the City of New York for cable transfers payable in foreign currencies as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes. The noon buying rate for the Indian rupee from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, expressed in rupees per US$1.00, was Rs. 59.89 on March 28, 2014. Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. We also have interest-bearing assets (including cash balances) and interest bearing liabilities, which bear interest at variable rates. We are therefore exposed to changes in interest rates in the various markets in which we borrow. 4 Table of Contents Although we engage in managing our interest and foreign exchange exposure through use of financial hedging instruments such as forward contracts, swap agreements and option contracts, higher interest rates and a weakening of the Indian rupee against major foreign currencies significantly increase our cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Financial instability in other countries could disrupt our business and cause the trading price of our Shares and ADSs to decrease. The Indian automotive market and the Indian economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to economic developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies and the economy as a whole, in other countries, including India. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause volatility in Indian financial markets and indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability could also have a negative impact on the Indian economy, including the movement of exchange rates and interest rates in India. In the event the recovery of global economy is slower than expected, or if there is any significant financial disruption, this could have a material adverse effect on our cost of funding, loan portfolio, business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our Shares and ADSs. Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The global automotive industry is highly competitive and competition is likely to further intensify in view of the continuing globalization and consolidation in the worldwide automotive industry. Competition is especially likely to increase in the premium automotive categories as each market participant intensifies its efforts to retain its position in established markets while also expanding in emerging markets, such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia. The factors affecting competition include product quality and features, innovation and time to introduce new products, ability to control costs, pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy, environmental impact and perception thereof, customer service and financing terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the global automotive industry in the future. We also face strong competition in the Indian market from domestic as well as foreign automobile manufacturers. Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared to other mature markets have attracted a number of international companies to India either through joint ventures with local partners or through independently owned operations in India. International competitors bring with them decades of international experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant financial resources. Consequently, domestic competition is likely to further intensify in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our future strategies in a way that will mitigate the effects of increased competition in the Indian automotive industry. Our future success depends on our ability to satisfy changing customer demands by offering innovative products in a timely manner and maintaining such products’ competitiveness and quality. Our competitors may gain significant advantages if they are able to offer products satisfying customer needs earlier than we are able to and this could adversely impact our sales and results of operations. Unanticipated delays or cost overruns in implementing new product launches, expansion plans or capacity enhancements could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Customer preferences especially in many of the developed markets seem to be moving in favor of more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. Furthermore, in many countries there has been significant pressure on the automotive industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. In many markets these preferences are driven by increased government regulations, rising fuel prices and customers’ environmental considerations. Our operations may be significantly impacted if we experience delays in developing fuel efficient products that reflect changing customer preferences, especially in the premium automotive category. In addition, a deterioration in the quality of our vehicles could force us to incur substantial costs and damage our reputation. There can be no assurance that the market acceptance of our future products will meet our sales expectations, in which case we may be unable to realize the intended economic benefits of our investments and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with product liability, warranty and recall. We are subject to risks and costs associated with product liability, warranties and recalls, should we supply defective products, parts, or related after-sales services, including by generating negative publicity, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such events could also require us to expend considerable resources in correcting these problems and could significantly reduce demand for our products. We may also be subject to class actions or other large scale product liability or other lawsuits in various jurisdictions where we have a significant presence. 5 Table of Contents We are subject to risk associated with the automobile financing business. In India, we are subject to risks associated with our automobile financing business. In Fiscal 2014, the market share of our automobile financing business, which supports sales of our vehicles, declined to 30.0% from 33.1% in Fiscal 2013. Any default by our customers or inability to repay installments as due, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any downgrade in our credit ratings may increase our borrowing costs and restrict our access to the debt markets. Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory changes or otherwise, we may need to reduce the amount of financing receivables we originate, which could severely disrupt our ability to support the sale of our vehicles. The sale of our commercial and passenger vehicles is heavily dependent on fund availability for our customers. Rising delinquencies and early defaults has contributed to a reduction in automobile financing, which has had an adverse effect on fund availability for potential customers. This reduction in available financing may continue in the future and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Jaguar Land Rover has consumer finance arrangements in place with local providers in a number of key markets. Any reduction in the supply of available consumer financing for purchase of new vehicles could create additional pressures to increase marketing incentives in order to maintain demand for our vehicles, which could materially and adversely affect our sales and net income. Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover also offers residual value guarantees on the leases of certain vehicles in some markets. Any significant declines in used car valuations could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Underperformance of our distribution channels and supply chains may adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our products are sold and serviced through a network of authorized dealers and service centers across our domestic market, and a network of distributors and local dealers in international markets. We monitor the performance of our dealers and distributors and provide them with support to enable them to perform to our expectations. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations will be met. Any under-performance by our dealers or distributors could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on third parties to supply us with the raw materials, parts and components used in the manufacture of our products. Furthermore, for some of these parts and components, we are dependent on a single source. Our ability to procure supplies in a cost effective and timely manner is subject to various factors, some of which are not within our control. While we manage our supply chain as part of our vendor management process, any significant problems with our supply chain in the future could severely disrupt our business and materially reduce our sales and net income. Natural disasters and man-made accidents, adverse economic conditions, decline in automobile demand, and lack of access to sufficient financing arrangements, among others, could have a negative financial impact on our suppliers and distributors in turn impairing timely availability of components to us or increasing the costs of such components. Similarly, impairments to the financial condition of our distributors may adversely impact our performance in some markets. In addition, if one or more of the other global automotive manufacturers were to become insolvent, this would severely disrupt our supply chains and may further materially reduce our sales and net income. In respect of our Jaguar Land Rover operations, as part of a separation agreement from Ford, we have entered into supply agreements with Ford and certain other third parties for critical components. Any disruption of such services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in input prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, the consumption of raw materials, components and aggregates and purchase of products for sale constituted approximately 61.7% and 63.4% respectively, of our total revenues. Prices of commodity items used in manufacturing automobiles, including steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, rubber, platinum, palladium and rhodium have become increasingly volatile in recent years. Further price movements would closely depend on the evolving economic scenarios across the globe. While we continue to pursue cost reduction initiatives, an increase in price of input materials could severely impact our profitability to the extent such increase cannot be absorbed by the market through price increases and/or could have a negative impact on the demand. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to adequately address changes in commodity prices even if they are foreseeable. Increases in fuel costs also pose a significant challenge to automobile manufacturers worldwide, including us, especially in the commercial and premium vehicle segments where increased fuel prices have an impact on demand. 6 Table of Contents Deterioration in the performance of any of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates may adversely affect our results of operations. We have made and may continue to make capital commitments to our subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates, and if the business or operations of any of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates deteriorates, the value of our investments may decline substantially. The significant reliance of Jaguar Land Rover on key mature markets increases the risk of negative impact of reduced customer demand in those countries. Jaguar Land Rover, which contributes a large portion of our revenues, generates a significant portion of its sales in the United Kingdom, North American and continental European markets where the automotive industry was severely impacted during the global economic downturn in Fiscal 2009. Even though sales of passenger cars in certain of these markets were aided by government-sponsored car-scrap incentives, these incentives primarily benefited the compact and micro-compact car segments and had virtually no slowing effect on the sales declines in the premium car or all-terrain vehicle segments in which we operate. Although demand in these markets has recovered, any decline in demand for our vehicles in these major markets may in the future significantly impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our strategy, which includes new product launches and further expansion into growing markets, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, may not be sufficient to mitigate a decrease in demand for our products in mature markets in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We are subject to risks associated with growing our business through mergers and acquisitions. We believe that our acquisitions provide us opportunities to grow significantly in the global automobile markets by offering premium brands and products. Our acquisitions have provided us with access to technology and additional capabilities while also offering potential synergies. However, the scale, scope and nature of the integration required in connection with our acquisitions present significant challenges, and we may be unable to integrate the relevant subsidiaries, divisions and facilities effectively within our expected schedule. An acquisition may not meet our expectations and the realization of the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. We will continue to evaluate growth opportunities through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future. Growth through mergers and acquisitions involves business risks, including unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition is completed. The key success factors will be seamless integration and effective management of the merged/acquired entity, retention of key personnel, and generating cash flow from synergies in engineering and sourcing, joint sales and marketing efforts, and management of a larger business. If any of these factors fails to materialize or if we are unable to manage any of the associated risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is seasonal in nature and a substantial decrease in our sales during certain quarters could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. The sales volumes and prices for our vehicles are influenced by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand for these products. The automotive industry has been cyclical in the past and we expect this cyclicality to continue. In the Indian market, demand for our vehicles generally peaks between January and March, although there is a decrease in demand in February just before release of the Indian fiscal budget. Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in the festival season from September onwards, with a decline in December due to year-end. Our Jaguar Land Rover business is impacted by the bi-annual registration of vehicles in the United Kingdom where the vehicle registration number changes every six months, which in turn has an impact on the resale value of vehicles. This leads to an increase in sales during the period when the aforementioned change occurs. Other markets such as the United States are influenced by introduction of new model year products which typically occurs in the autumn of each year. The automotive market in China tends to reflect higher demand for vehicles around the Chinese New Year. Demand in the western European automotive markets tends to be reduced during the summer and winter holidays. Furthermore, our cash flows are impacted by temporary shutdowns of three of our manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom during the summer and winter holiday seasons. The resulting sales and cash flow profile is reflected in our results of operations on a quarterly basis. 7 Table of Contents We rely on licensing arrangements with Tata Sons Limited to use the “Tata” brand. Any improper use of the associated trademarks by our licensor or any other third parties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to our trade names and trademarks are a crucial factor in marketing our products. Establishment of the “Tata” word mark and logo mark in and outside India is material to our operations. We have licensed the use of the “Tata” brand from Tata Sons Limited, or Tata Sons. If Tata Sons, or any of their subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or any third party uses the trade name “Tata” in ways that adversely affect such trade name or trademark, our reputation could suffer damage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability to protect or preserve our intellectual property could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We own or otherwise have rights in respect of a number of patents relating to the products we manufacture, which have been obtained over a period of years. In connection with the design and engineering of new vehicles and the enhancement of existing models, we seek to regularly develop new technical designs for use in our vehicles. We also use technical designs which are the intellectual property of third parties with such third parties’ consent. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. Although we do not regard any of our businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, an inability to protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal breach of some or a large group of our intellectual property rights, would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be affected by restrictions on the use of intellectual property rights held by third parties and we may be held legally liable for the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others in our products. We may be adversely affected by labor unrest. All of our permanent employees, other than officers and managers, in India and most of our permanent employees in South Korea, Spain and the United Kingdom, including certain officers and managers, in relation to our automotive business, are members of labor unions and are covered by our wage agreements, where applicable with those labor unions. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. However, in the future we may be subject to labor unrest, which may delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. If work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our major vendors occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business and prospects could suffer if we lose one or more key personnel or if we are unable to attract and retain our employees. Our business and future growth depend largely on the skills of our workforce, including executives and officers, and automotive designers and engineers. The loss of the services of one or more of our personnel could impair our ability to implement our business strategy. In view of intense competition, any inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate our workforce could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Future pension obligations may prove more costly than currently anticipated and the market value of assets in our pension plans could decline. We provide post retirement and pension benefits to our employees, including defined benefit plans. Our pension liabilities are generally funded. However, lower returns on pension fund assets, changes in market conditions, interest rates or inflation rates, and adverse changes in other critical actuarial assumptions, may impact our pension liabilities or assets and consequently increase funding requirements, which could materially decrease our net income and cash flows. Any inability to manage our growing international business may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy relies on the expansion of our operations by introducing certain automotive products in markets outside India, including Europe, China, Russia, Brazil, the United States, Africa and other parts of Asia. The costs associated with entering and establishing ourselves in new markets, and expanding such operations, may be higher than expected, and we may face significant competition in those regions. In addition, our international business is subject to many actual and potential risks and challenges, including language barriers, cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of receivables under the legal systems of some foreign countries, the risk of non-tariff barriers, other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, rules and regulations. If we are unable to manage risks related to our expansion and growth in other parts of the world, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We have a limited number of manufacturing, design, engineering and other facilities and any disruption in the operations of those facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have manufacturing facilities and design and engineering centers located in India, the United Kingdom, China, South Korea, Spain, Thailand and South Africa, and have established a presence in Indonesia. We could experience disruptions to our manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, extreme weather, fire, theft, system failures, natural catastrophes, mechanical or equipment failures and similar events. Any such disruptions could affect our ability to design, manufacture and sell our products and, if any of these events were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to shift our design, engineering or manufacturing operations to alternate sites in a timely manner or at all. Any such disruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to operational risks, including risks in connection with our use of information technology. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal systems and processes, whether resulting from internal or external events. Such risks could stem from inadequacy or failures of controls within internal procedures, violations of internal policies by employees, disruptions or malfunctioning of information technology systems such as computer networks and telecommunication systems, other mechanical or equipment failures, human error, natural disasters or malicious acts by third parties. Any unauthorized access to or misuse of data on our information technology systems, human errors or technological or process failures of any kind could severely disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing, design and engineering processes, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any failures or weaknesses in our internal controls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As discussed in Item 15, “Controls and Procedures,” upon an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. We concluded that there was a material weakness such that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as at March 31, 2014. The existence of this material weakness, if not adequately remediated, could materially and adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial condition and results of operations in a reliable manner. Although we have instituted remedial measures to address the material weakness identified and continually review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such additional weaknesses or failure to adequately remediate any existing weakness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us against all potential losses to which we may be subject, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that the insurance coverage that we maintain is reasonably adequate to cover all normal risks associated with the operation of our business, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, that any claim under our insurance policies will be honored fully or timely, or that our insurance premiums will not increase substantially. Accordingly, to the extent that we suffer loss or damage that is not covered by insurance or which exceeds our insurance coverage, or are required to pay higher insurance premiums, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Political and Regulatory Risks. India’s obligations under the World Trade Organization Agreement. India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement could reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components and vehicles. Reductions of import tariffs could result in increased competition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Compliance with new and current laws, regulations and government policies regarding increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and other emissions, vehicle safety and taxes may significantly increase our costs and materially decrease our net income. As an automobile company, we are subject to extensive governmental regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, noise and safety, and the levels of pollutants generated by our production facilities. These regulations are likely to become more stringent and compliance costs may significantly impact our future results of operations. In particular, the United States and Europe have stringent regulations relating to vehicular emissions. The proposed tightening of vehicle emissions regulations by the European Union will require significant costs for compliance. In addition, a number of further legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse emissions, including national laws and the Kyoto Protocol, are in various phases of discussions and implementation. In order to comply with current and future safety and environmental norms, we may have to incur additional costs to: (i) operate and maintain our production facilities; (ii) install new emissions controls or reduction technologies; (iii) purchase or otherwise obtain allowances to emit greenhouse gases; (iv) administer and manage our greenhouse gas emissions program, and (v) invest in research and development to upgrade products and manufacturing facilities. These costs may be difficult to pass through to consumers. If we are unable to develop commercially viable technologies or otherwise unable to attain compliance within the time frames set by the new standards, we could face significant civil penalties or be forced to restrict product offerings drastically. Moreover, safety and environmental standards may at times impose conflicting imperatives, which pose engineering challenges and would, among other things, increase our costs. While we are pursuing the development and implementation of various technologies in order to meet the required standards in the various countries in which we sell our vehicles, the costs for compliance with these required standards could be significant to our operations and may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Imposition of any additional taxes and levies designed to limit the use of automobiles could significantly reduce the demand for our products as well as our sales and net income. Changes in corporate and other taxation policies as well as changes in export and other incentives given by the various governments could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we benefit from excise duty exemptions for manufacturing facilities in the State of Uttarakhand and other incentives such as subsidies or loans from states where we have manufacturing operations. The Government of India had proposed a comprehensive national goods and services tax, or GST, regime that will combine taxes and levies by the central and state governments into one unified rate structure. While both the Government of India and other state governments of India have publicly announced that all committed incentives will be protected following the implementation of the GST, given the limited availability of information in the public domain concerning the GST, we are unable to provide any assurance as to this or any other aspect of the tax regime following implementation of the GST. The implementation of this rationalized tax structure may be affected by any disagreement between certain state governments, which could create uncertainty. The timeline of the proposed transition is uncertain as at the date hereof. The Proposed Direct Tax Code, or DTC, aims to replace the existing Income Tax Act, 1961 and other direct tax laws, with a view to simplify and rationalize the tax provisions into one unified code. The various proposals included in DTC are subject to review by the new government and as such impact if any, is not quantifiable at this stage. Regulations in the areas of investments, taxes and levies may also have an impact on Indian securities, including our Shares and ADSs. In this regard it is important to note that DTC would likely have a significant impact on the current tax regime, including in respect of our Shares and ADSs. For more information, see Item 4.B “— Business Overview — Government Regulations — Indian Taxes — Goods and Services Tax” of this annual report. We may be adversely impacted by political instability, wars, terrorism, multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics and labor strikes. Our products are exported to a number of geographical markets and we plan to further expand our international operations in the future. Consequently, we are subject to various risks associated with conducting our business outside our domestic markets and our operations may be subject to political instability in those markets, wars, terrorism, regional and/or multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages, epidemics and labor strikes. In addition, conducting business internationally, especially in emerging markets, exposes us to additional risks, including adverse changes in economic and government policies, unpredictable shifts in regulation, inconsistent application of existing laws and regulations, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures. Any significant or prolonged disruption or delay in our operations related to these risks could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. We are subject to a complex and changing regime of laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, regulations, New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing rules and Indian stock market listing regulations. New or changed laws, rules, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. However, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management resources and time. In addition, new laws, rules, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, including under the recently enacted provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 2013. Further, our Board members, Executive Directors and our Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified Board members and senior management. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, rules, regulations or differing standards, our business and reputation may be harmed. 10 Table of Contents Compliance with the SEC’s new rule for disclosures on “conflict minerals” may be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our reputation. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC has adopted a new rule that applies to companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, including certain products manufactured for them by third parties. The new rule requires companies that use conflict minerals in the production of their products to conduct due diligence as to whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and requires companies to file certain information with the SEC about the use of these minerals. The deadline for the first conflict minerals report was June 2, 2014, and we filed our first conflict minerals report on May 30, 2014. We expect to incur additional costs to comply with the new due diligence and disclosure requirements. In addition, depending on our findings or our inability to make reliable findings about the source of any possible conflict minerals that may be used in any products manufactured for us by third parties, our reputation could be harmed. If an initial decision rendered by the Administrative Law Judge, or the ALJ, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the PRC-based network firms of the Big Four accounting firms, including the independent registered public accounting firm of Chery Jaguar Landrover Automotive Co., Limited, becomes final, we could become unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the PRC-based network firms of the Big Four accounting firms, including the independent registered public accounting firm of Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co., Limited, our joint venture with Chery Automobile Co., Ltd. to manufacture cars in China, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the audit work papers of these firms with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the ALJ presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The ALJ’s initial decision has been appealed by these firms. The ALJ’s decision does not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. Any SEC endorsement or other determination could be appealed by the accounting firms through the U.S. federal courts. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s review or that of any subsequent appeal process, if the accounting firms are ultimately temporarily denied the ability to practice before the SEC, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange or the termination of the registration of our ADSs under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks associated with Investments in an Indian Company. Political changes in the Government of India could delay and/or affect the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Our business could be significantly influenced by economic policies adopted by the Government of India. Since 1991, successive governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization and financial sector reforms. The Government of India has at various times announced its general intention to continue India’s current economic and financial liberalization and deregulation policies. However, protests against such policies, which have occurred in the past, could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in India could change as well. While we expect any new government to continue the liberalization of India’s economic and financial sectors and deregulation policies, there can be no assurance that such policies will be continued. The Government of India has traditionally exercised and continues to exercise influence over many aspects of the economy. Our business and the market price and liquidity of our ADSs and Shares may be affected by interest rates, changes in policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. A change in the Government of India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally, and specifically those of our Company, as a substantial portion of our assets are located in India, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our business and our profitability. India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and hostilities, including terrorist attacks and riots and armed conflict with neighboring countries. Events of this nature in the future could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our ADSs and Shares, and on the market for our vehicles. Rights of shareholders under Indian law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Association, which include regulations applicable to our Board of Directors, and Indian law, govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to these matters and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may differ from those that would apply to a company incorporated in another jurisdiction. Shareholders’ rights under Indian law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries or jurisdictions, including the United States. You may also have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder of our Company than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Indian securities market. The Indian stock exchanges have, in the past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of their listed securities. The Indian stock exchanges, including the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited, or BSE, have experienced problems that, if they continue or recur, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our Shares. These problems in the past included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Furthermore, from time to time disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. There may be a differing level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants, than in the United States. SEBI received statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. Subsequently, SEBI has prescribed regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, insider dealing and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States. Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us or our management. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. The majority of our directors and Executive Officers named in this annual report are residents of India and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these directors and Executive Officers are located in India. As a result, investors may find it difficult to (i) effect service of process upon us or these directors and Executive Officers in jurisdictions outside of India, (ii) enforce court judgments obtained outside of India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and Executive Officers, (iii) enforce, in an Indian court, court judgments obtained outside of India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and Executive Officers, and (iv) obtain expeditious adjudication of an original action in an Indian court to enforce liabilities, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and Executive Officers. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. Recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided under Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or the Civil Procedure Code. Section 13 and Section 44A of the Civil Procedure Code provide that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (i) where it has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (ii) where it has not been given on the merits of the case, (iii) where it appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where Indian law is applicable, (iv) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (v) where it has been obtained by fraud or (vi) where it sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Civil Procedure Code provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a superior court in any country or territory outside India which the Government has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. However, Section 44A of the Civil Procedure Code is applicable only to monetary decrees not being in the nature of any amounts payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty. 12 Table of Contents The United States has not been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purpose of Section 44A of the Civil Procedure Code. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by a suit upon the judgment and not by proceedings in execution. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with public policy. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from RBI, the central bank of India, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate outside India any amount recovered. Risks associated with our Shares and ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the US dollar may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our ADSs and Shares, independent of our operating results. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the US dollar will affect, among others things, the US dollar equivalents of the price of the Shares in Indian rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the US dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Indian rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Indian rupee of a sale of Shares in India. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the US dollar has changed materially in the last two decades and may materially fluctuate in the future. As of August 28, 2013, the value of the Indian rupee against the US dollar was Rs. 68.80 = US$1.00, following a depreciation of approximately 28.2%, as compared to Rs.53.65 = US $1.00 on May 1, 2013, based on the exchange rate for Indian rupees in the City of New York for cable transfers payable in foreign currencies as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes. The noon buying rate for the Indian rupee from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, expressed in rupees per US$1.00, was Rs. 59.89 on March 28, 2014. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Although holders of ADSs have a right to receive any dividends declared in respect of Shares underlying the ADSs, they cannot exercise voting or other direct rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by ADRs. Citibank, N.A. as depositary is the registered shareholder of the deposited Shares underlying our ADSs, and therefore only Citibank, N.A. can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited Shares. Only if requested by us, will the depositary notify holders of ADSs of upcoming votes and arrange to deliver our voting materials to holders of ADSs. The depositary will try, in so far as practicable, subject to Indian laws and the provisions of our Articles of Association, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited securities as instructed by the holders of ADSs. If the depositary receives voting instructions in time from a holder of ADSs which fail to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote the Shares underlying such holder’s ADSs, such holder will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to vote in favor of the items set forth in such voting instructions. If the depositary has not received timely instructions from a holder of ADSs, the holder shall be deemed to have instructed the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us, subject to the conditions set forth in the Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement (as amended). If requested by us, the depositary is required to represent all shares underlying ADSs, regardless whether timely instructions have been received from the holders of such ADSs, for the sole purpose of establishing a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights. Registered holders of our Shares withdrawn from the depositary arrangements will be entitled to vote and exercise other direct shareholder rights in accordance with Indian law. However, a holder may not know about a meeting sufficiently in advance to withdraw the underlying shares in time. Furthermore, a holder of ADSs may not receive voting materials, if we do not instruct the depositary to distribute such materials, or may not receive such voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. Moreover, pursuant to Indian regulations, we are required to offer our shareholders preemptive rights to subscribe for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issue of new shares. These rights may be waived by a resolution passed by at least 75% of our shareholders present and voting at a general meeting. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for subscribing to these new Shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective or an exemption from the registration requirements is available to us. Our decision to file a registration statement would be based on the costs, timing, potential liabilities and the perceived benefits associated with any such registration statement and we do not commit that we would file such a registration statement. If any issue of securities is made to our shareholders in the future, such securities may also be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities in the Indian securities market for the benefit of the holders of ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of these rights/securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportionate interest in the Company would be reduced. 13 Table of Contents Indian Government regulation of foreign ownership could materially reduce the price of the ADSs. Foreign ownership of Indian securities is regulated and is partially restricted. In addition, there are restrictions on the deposit of Shares into our ADS facilities. ADSs issued by companies in certain emerging markets, including India, may trade at a discount to the underlying equity shares, in part because of the restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares and in part because ADSs are sometimes perceived to offer less liquidity than underlying shares that can be traded freely in local markets by both local and international investors. See Item 10.D “— Exchange Controls”. The ADSs could trade at a discount to the market price of the underlying shares. 