D. Risk Factors. This section describes the risks that we currently believe may materially affect our business. The factors below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this annual report and the cautionary statements on page 2. The risks below are not the only ones we face – some risks may be unknown to us, and some risks that we do not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material. One or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, revenues, sales, net assets, results of operations liquidity and capital resources. - 7 - Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Business General economic conditions could significantly adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The Indian automotive industry is substantially affected by general economic conditions in India. In 1999, the automotive industry witnessed a recovery in demand after declining trends for two years. Demand for four-wheel vehicles again declined in the period from 2000 to late 2001, driven by poor economic conditions in India. Though there has been a significant increase in demand since early 2002, primarily due to significant growth of the gross domestic product, or GDP, the construction of improved roadways in India, and substantial lowering of interest rates there can be no assurance that the Indian economy will not experience a downturn which may, in turn, significantly adversely affect our sales and results of operations. One driver of demand is the level of market interest rates, which impacts the cost of financing for purchasers of our products. While interest rates declined steadily during fiscals 2003 and 2004, they increased marginally in fiscal 2005. No significant increase in interest rates is expected in the short term, but trends in interest rates need to be monitored closely. A significant increase in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on demand for our products. Interest rates in the United States and some other countries have recently been increasing and this may lead to interest rate increases in India and other countries. On the other hand, decreases in market interest rates may lead to higher levels of prepayments of our loans receivable from customers, as they may seek to refinance their loans elsewhere. Although we have not experienced significant prepayments during past periods of declining interest rates, and while prepayments have not had any material adverse impact on our results of operations in the past, there can be no assurance that prepayments during periods of declining interest rates will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future as we seek to expand our customer financing business. If we are unable to implement our growth strategies in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have adopted certain growth strategies, including the expansion of our automotive business through upgrading of our existing products, the introduction of new products and an increase in international business. All these new projects involve risks and difficulties and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete our plans on schedule or within budget. If market conditions change, operations do not generate sufficient funds or for any other reason, we may decide to delay, modify or forego some aspects of our growth strategies. Our future results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to implement our growth strategies. Increased competition in the Indian automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations. We face strong competition in India across our product lines from other Indian and foreign automotive manufacturers. Competition is expected to intensify as Indian automotive manufacturers obtain greater access to debt and equity financing in the international capital markets or gain access to more advanced technology through alliances. Foreign automotive manufacturers have increased and are expected to further increase their participation in the Indian automotive market through technology transfers, joint ventures and direct investments. The Indian automotive industry has historically been protected against competition from imported goods through a number of import restrictions, taxes and duties on automotive and related products. Many of those restrictions, however, have recently been lifted or relaxed. In 2001, all quantitative restrictions on the import of automobiles into India were removed. Additionally, in recent years, the Government of India has permitted automatic approvals for foreign equity ownership of up to 100% in entities manufacturing vehicles and components in India. These changes have led to dramatically increased competition from product offerings by major international manufacturers, on imported vehicles, second hand or pre-owned vehicles. Though there remains relatively high tariffs on imports of vehicles and components, we expect tariffs on the import of components and cars in completely built units, or CBUs, and/or completely knocked down units, or CKDs, to be reduced in the future in line with India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement. There can be no assurance that there will not be further reductions in import duties on automotive products or a relaxation or removal of import restrictions, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. - 8 - Table of Contents Increases in diesel fuel prices or increased demand for gasoline fuel-powered vehicles could adversely affect the demand for our products. A significant proportion of our products are powered by diesel fuel engines. Retail prices for diesel fuel in India have historically been significantly lower than retail prices for gasoline. However, due to the elimination of some fuel price controls in India and global movements in market prices of crude oil, the gap between retail prices of diesel fuel and gasoline in India has been narrowing. A sudden shift in demand away from diesel fuel-powered vehicles in India, which may occur if the price differential between diesel fuel and gasoline continued to decline significantly or if there is a substantial increase in diesel prices, could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Delays in construction of improved roadways in India and increased competition form railways and other modes of transport could adversely affect the demand for our existing and future products. Our medium and long term business plans are based on the assumption that new large roadway projects in India undertaken by the Government of India will proceed according to announced plans. If these roadways are not constructed according to these plans, the demand for our current and new products may not achieve the levels we anticipate and accordingly may lead to lower sales and profits. Additionally, the Government of India’s proposal to increase the coverage and efficiency of the railway network and efficiency, aggressive pricing by railways and expansion of oil pipelines in the country could also adversely impact the demand for commercial vehicles. Compliance with increasingly stringent safety or emissions standards relating to our products or our manufacturing facilities, or other environmental regulations, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the last few years, the Government of India has introduced several regulations regarding emission levels, noise and safety of automotive products, as well as levels of pollutants generated by the plants that produce automotive vehicles. These regulations are likely to become more stringent and the cost of complying with these regulations may be significant. To comply with the requirements of environmental regulation, we may have to incur substantial capital and product development expenditure and research and development costs to upgrade our products and our manufacturing facilities, which may increase our cost of production and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to comply with these standards within the time frame provided to us, our production and sales may be adversely affected. Taxes and other levies imposed by the central or state governments in India on the acquisition and ownership of automotive vehicles, or regulations applying to us may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Taxes and other levies imposed by the central or state governments in India that affect our industry include customs duties on imports of capital goods, raw materials and components, excise duty on the manufacture of automotive vehicles, service tax, central and state sales tax, octroi duties, value added tax, road and registration tax. These taxes and levies affect the cost of production and prices of our products and therefore the demand for our products. In addition, restrictions or levies imposed by the government on the use of automotive vehicles, such as a congestion charge or other traffic control measures, or on diesel vehicles in particular, could affect the demand for our automotive vehicles in the future. An increase in any of these taxes or levies, or the imposition of new taxes or levies in the future, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on a limited number of vendors for the supply of critical components, consumables and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We depend on external suppliers for the supply of raw materials, components and some spare parts for our products. We currently have an aggregate of approximately 1,100 vendors of components in India. We collaborate closely with our vendors in order to secure a reliable supply of components that meet our requirements and to generate economies of scale. Additionally, we have equity interests through shareholders agreements with some of our vendors. As a result of this approach, for some raw materials and several inputs in our manufacturing process for aggregates, such as engines, and fuel pumps, we rely on a only a limited number of vendors. The failure by a vendor to adhere to our technical specifications, quality requirements and production and delivery schedules could temporarily disrupt our manufacturing process. In addition, a vendor on whom we are dependent may raise its prices, may experience a delay in its ability to produce or deliver products, or a dispute may arise between us and the vendor. If we are dependent on a sole vendor or a limited number of vendors for a critical input, we may find it difficult to replace a vendor on a timely basis and at reasonable cost, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. - 9 - Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with product warranty, recall and product liability costs due to defects in our products or related after-sales services, which could generate adverse publicity and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Defects, if any, in our products could require us to undertake service actions or vehicle recalls. These actions could require us to expend considerable resources in correcting these problems and could adversely affect demand for our products. Defects in our products that arise from defective components or spare parts supplied by our vendors may be covered under warranties provided by our vendors. Although we obtain product liability insurance for the automotive vehicles we sell in some international markets, we are not covered by insurance for product liability claims for products sold in India. An unusual number or amount of warranty claims against a vendor could affect us adversely because we depend on a limited number of vendors for the supply of raw materials and components, including some of our affiliates. Repeated warranty claims may result in a rise in our cost of obtaining insurance. In addition, these claims could have an impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition as some of our vendors are our subsidiaries and affiliates. Further, if a vendor fails to meet quality standards, it could be exposed to warranty and other product liability costs, and expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Any defects in our products or after-sales services provided by us, authorized dealers or third parties could also result in customer claims for damages. In defending these claims, we could incur substantial costs and receive adverse publicity. Management resources could be diverted away from our business towards defending these claims. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We cannot assure that the limitations of liability set forth in our contracts with vendors will be enforceable in all instances or will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Increases in the cost of raw materials and automobile components may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, consumption of raw materials and components formed approximately 81.2% and 77.6%, respectively, of our cost of sales. If costs of raw materials and components rise, and if we are not able to recover these costs through cost saving measures elsewhere or are unable to increase the selling prices of our vehicles due to competitive pressure, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, steel prices have significantly increased in recent periods and we have not been able to fully recover these increase through increases in selling prices for our vehicles. Potential delays in the launch of new models in the market and lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing models can cause us to lose market share and adversely affect our results of operations. In a highly competitive environment where the Indian automotive industry currently has excess capacity, competitors can gain a significant advantage by introducing a new model in a particular category before we do. In addition, the launch of a new model requires substantial capital investment and product development expenditure and generally higher initial production costs. The capital investments in plant and machinery, in addition to product development costs, associated with the launch of a new model may result in higher levels of depreciation and amortization. Our loss in fiscal 2002 was partially attributable to these factors and similar investments by us in the future may have an adverse impact on our profitability. Therefore, if market acceptance of any of our new models is lower than anticipated, we may be unable to gain the intended economic benefits of our investments and higher cost of production, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have made and may continue to make capital commitments to our subsidiaries and affiliates and if the business and operations of subsidiaries and affiliates to whom we make capital commitments deteriorate, we may be required to write down or write off our investments in these subsidiaries or affiliates in the future. We have made and continue to make capital investments, loans, advances and other commitments to support our subsidiaries and affiliates. These investments and commitments have included capital contributions to enhance the financial condition or liquidity position of our subsidiaries and affiliates. If the business and operations of these subsidiaries and affiliates deteriorate, we may suffer losses and our investments may be required to be written down or written off. Additionally, our loans or advances may not be repaid or may need to be restructured or we may be required to outlay capital under our commitments to support these companies. - 10 - Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign exchange losses. Devaluations or depreciation of the value of the rupee can influence the cost of our borrowings denominated in currencies other than rupees and increase the cost of our imports, while an appreciation of the value of the rupee, which has occurred against the dollar since early 2003, can adversely impact our exports. As of March 31, 2005, approximately 83.8% of our borrowings were denominated in dollars and other non-rupee currencies. Further, in fiscal 2004 and 2005, 4.6% and 5.7%, respectively, of our total raw material costs were incurred in dollars and other non-rupee currencies, and in fiscal 2004 and 2005, 7.9 % and 13.9%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from international markets. Any significant fluctuation to our disadvantage in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we engage in some currency hedging in order to decrease our foreign exchange exposure, a weakening of the rupee against the dollar and other major foreign currencies may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowing and consequently may increase the cost of financing our expenditure. In addition, we have experienced and can be expected to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities. Although the fluctuations in the value of the rupee against the dollar has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in recent periods, the depreciation in the value of the rupee against the dollar in recent months may lead to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations during the current fiscal year and in future periods, partly due to increase in dollar-denominated debt. We need to successfully integrate and manage our mergers or acquisitions to maintain profitability. During fiscal 2005, we acquired a 21% equity stake in Hispano Carrocera, S.A., (Hispano), a leading bus body building company in Spain, and in fiscal 2004, we acquired Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. (now named Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. or TDCV) in South Korea. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Tata Finance Limited, in which we had held 12.08% of its equity, merged with us. In addition, our subsidiary, Tata Technologies, USA (TT US) has made a cash offer of 220 pence per share (Rs.169.40 per share) in the first week of September 2005 for 100% of the equity shareholding of INCAT International Plc. (INCAT), a UK-based company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange. We also continue to evaluate other merger and acquisition opportunities and plan to make additional mergers or acquisitions in the future if suitable opportunities arise. These may dilute our earnings per share as a result of the specific scope of the business or condition of the operations being merged with or acquired. Merger and acquisition involve risks, including: • unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to these businesses that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition is finalized; • integration and management of the operations and systems; • retention of select personnel; • coordination of sales and marketing efforts; • management of a larger business; and • diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage our pending acquisition, as well as any future mergers or acquisitions that we might pursue, our growth plans may not be met and our profitability may decline. We may be adversely affected by labor unrest All of our regular employees and those of our consolidated subsidiaries in India, other than management, are members of labor unions and are covered by our wage agreements with those labor unions which have different terms (typically three years) at different locations. Our wage agreements for Pune (excluding the car plant), the Pune car plant, Jamshedpur, Mumbai and Lucknow are valid until August 31, 2006, March 31, 2007, March 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and March 31, 2008, respectively. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. Though we have not experienced any other labor unrest since 2000, we may in the future be subject to labor unrest, which may delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. If such work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our major vendors occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. - 11 - Table of Contents Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India rules, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing rules and Indian stock market listing regulations have created uncertainty for us. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent accountants’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Risks Associated with Investments in an Indian Company Political instability or changes in the Government in India could delay the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Substantially, our manufacturing and sales and distribution facilities are located in India, and in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 95%, 92% and 86%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales within India. Our business, and the market price and liquidity of our ADSs and shares, may be affected by foreign exchange rates and controls, interest rates, changes in government policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Indian Governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the roles of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators have remained significant. Consequent to an election in April and May, 2004, there was a change in government. Although the new government has announced its intention to continue with economic reforms implemented by its predecessor, these reforms can be implemented with agreement of the coalition partners of the government. The coalition consists of political parties with different agendas, which could result in political instability, and may effect economic reform, and specific laws and policies affecting automotive companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and investment regulations governing India’s capital markets. Uncertainty regarding possible policy changes immediately after elections has in the past resulted in significant volatility in price and trading volumes of securities of Indian companies. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular, if new restrictions on the private sector are introduced or if existing restrictions are increased. Regional conflicts in Asia and other export markets could adversely affect the Indian economy and cause our business to suffer. The Asian region has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. Since May 1999, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in Indian State of Jammu & Kashmir. Also, since early 2003, there have been military hostilities and civil unrest in Afghanistan and Iraq. Events of this nature in the future, as well as social and civil unrest within other countries in Asia, could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our ADSs and shares, and on the market for our vehicles. Rights of shareholders under Indian law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Association, which include regulations applicable to our Board of Directors, and Indian law govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to these matters and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may differ from those that would apply to a company in another jurisdiction. Shareholders’ rights under Indian law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries or jurisdictions, including the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. - 12 - Table of Contents Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us or our management. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. Almost all of our directors and executive officers named in this annual report are residents of India. Further, almost most of our assets and the assets of these directors and executive officers are located in India. As a result, investors may find it difficult to (i) effect service of process upon us or these directors and executive officers in jurisdictions outside India, (ii) enforce court judgments obtained outside India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers (iii) enforce, in an Indian court, court judgments obtained outside India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers, and (iv) obtain expeditious adjudication of an original action in an Indian court to enforce liabilities, including those based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. Recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided under Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or the Civil Code. Section 13 and Section 44A of the Civil Code provide that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (i) where it has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (ii) where it has not been given on the merits of the case, (iii) where it appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where Indian law is applicable, (iv) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (v) where it has been obtained by fraud or (vi) where it sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Civil Code provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a superior court in any country or territory outside India which the Government has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. However, Section 44A of the Civil Code is applicable only to monetary decrees not being in the nature of any amounts payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty. The United States has not been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purpose of Section 44A of the Civil Code. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by a suit upon the judgment and not by proceedings in execution. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to execute such a judgment or to repatriate outside India any amount recovered. Risks Relating to our Shares and ADSs Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on the value of the ADSs and the Shares, independent of our operating results. The price of our ADSs is quoted in dollars. Our shares are quoted in rupees on the Bombay Stock Exchange, or BSE, the National Stock Exchange of India, or NSE, and two other stock exchanges in India. Our application for delisting is pending for confirmation with these two other stock exchanges in India. Any dividends in respect of our shares will be paid in rupees and subsequently converted into dollars for distribution to ADS holders. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the rupee declines against the dollar. In addition, the dollar equivalents of any cash dividends or other cash payments to holders of our ADSs would decline if the value of the rupee declines against the dollar. ADS holders who seek to sell in India any shares represented by ADSs or any shares withdrawn upon surrender of any ADSs, and to convert the rupee proceeds of their sale into foreign currency and remit the foreign currency from India, will require the approval of the RBI for each of these transactions unless these shares are sold on a stock exchange in India on which these shares are listed. A delay in obtaining approval of the RBI might adversely affect the rate of exchange available for conversion of such rupee proceeds into foreign currencies. The exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar has changed substantially in the last two decades and may substantially fluctuate in the future. On an annual average basis, the rupee declined against the dollar from 1980 to 2002. The rupee lost approximately 15% of its value relative to the dollar in the three year period ended March 31, 2002, depreciating from a rate of Rs.42.50 = US$1.00 on March 31, 1999, to a rate of Rs.48.83 = US$1.00 on March 29, 2002, the last business day of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2002. During fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 the rupee generally appreciated in value against the dollar, from an exchange rate of Rs.48.83 = US$1.00 on March 29, 2002 to an exchange rate of Rs.43.40 = US$1.00 as of March 31, 2004. The Rupee however depreciated in value during the fiscal 2005 and ended at an exchange rate of Rs.43.62 = US$1.00 on March 31, 2005. The rupee depreciated in value against the dollar to reach Rs.43.86 = US$1.00 as of September 26, 2005. - 13 - Table of Contents The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Indian securities market. The Indian stock exchanges have, in the past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of their listed securities. The Indian stock exchanges, including the BSE, have experienced problems that, if they continue or recur, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our shares. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Furthermore, from time to time disputes have occurred between listed companies, and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. There is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants than in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, received statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. Subsequently, SEBI has prescribed regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, insider dealing and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Although holders of ADSs have a right to receive any dividends declared in respect of Shares underlying the ADSs, they cannot exercise voting or other direct rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by ADRs. Citibank, N.A., as depositary is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying our ADSs, and therefore only Citibank, N.A. can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited shares. Only if requested by us, the depositary will notify holders of ADSs of upcoming votes and arrange to deliver our voting materials to holders of ADSs. The depositary will try, insofar as practicable, subject to Indian laws and the provisions of our Articles of Association, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited securities as instructed by the holders of ADSs. If the depositary timely receives voting instructions from a holder of ADSs which fail to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote the shares underlying such holder’s ADSs, such holder will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to vote in favor of the items set forth in such voting instructions. If the depositary has not received timely instructions from a holder of ADSs, the holder shall be deemed to have instructed the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us, subject to the conditions set forth in the deposit agreement. If requested by us, the depositary is required to represent all shares underlying ADSs, regardless whether timely instructions have been received from the holders of such ADSs, for the sole purpose of establishing a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. Additionally, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights. Registered holders of our shares withdrawn from the depositary arrangements will be entitled to vote and exercise other direct shareholder rights in accordance with Indian law. However, a holder may not know about a meeting sufficiently in advance to withdraw the underlying shares in time. Furthermore, a holder of ADSs may not receive voting materials, if we do not instruct the depositary to distribute such materials, or may not receive such voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. See “Item 10. Additional Information –B. Memorandum and Articles of Association – Voting Rights” for a more detailed discussion of the manner in which a holder of ADSs can exercise its voting rights and “Item 12 – Description of Securities other than Equity Securities” for a discussion on the rights and limitations applicable to holders of ADSs in respect of dividends and distributions made in respect of Shares underlying the ADSs. 