D. Risk Factors. This section describes the risks that we currently believe may materially affect our business. The factors below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this annual report and the cautionary statements on page ii. The risks below are not the only ones we face – some risks may be unknown to us, and some risks that we do not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material. Although we will be making all reasonable efforts to mitigate or minimize these risks, one or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, revenues, sales, net assets, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. 3 Table of Contents Risk associated with Our Business and the Automotive Industry. General economic conditions could have a significant adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. The Indian automotive industry is substantially affected by general economic conditions in India. The demand for automobiles in the Indian market is influenced by factors including the growth rate of the Indian economy, easy availability of credit, increase in disposable income among Indian consumers, interest rates, freight rates and fuel prices. The automotive industry in general is cyclical and economic slowdowns in the past have harmed manufacturing industries including the automobile and automobile components manufacturing industry. There can be no assurance that the Indian economy will not experience a downturn, and weakening of economic activity. Lack of vehicle finance availability, increase in interest rates and/or increases in fuel prices are examples of developments that could lead to a decline in the demand for automobiles in the Indian market as well as impact our costs, which could significantly affect our sales and future results of operations in an adverse manner. In addition to India, we also have automotive operations in South Korea and recently commenced operations in Thailand. Furthermore, we acquired the Jaguar and Land Rover business, which has operations in over 165 countries, from Ford Motor Company on June 2, 2008. See “– Recent Developments – Acquisition of the Jaguar Land Rover Business” for more information. The worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic conditions, including the cost of purchasing and operating a vehicle and the availability and cost of credit and fuel (among other factors), over which automobile manufacturers have little control. Should industry demand soften beyond our expectations because of slowing or negative economic growth in key markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially adversely affected. Currency and exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We import capital equipment, raw materials and components and also sell our vehicles in various countries outside of India. These transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the US Dollar and Euro. Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and hence we are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. Although we engage in currency hedging in order to decrease our foreign exchange exposure, a weakening of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowing and consequently may increase our financing costs, which could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, the results of Jaguar Land Rover are impacted by fluctuations in the value of the British Pound against the dollar and other currencies of key countries where Jaguar Land Rover has operations. Any depreciation in the value of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may lead to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations during the current fiscal year and in the future periods, partly due to an increase in our non-rupee denominated debt. Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The Indian automobile industry is highly competitive. We face strong competition in the Indian market from domestic as well as foreign automobile manufacturers. Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared to other mature markets is attracting a number of international companies to India who have either created joint ventures with local partners or have established independently owned operations in India. International competitors bring with them decades of international experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant financial resources. Consequently, domestic competition is likely to further intensify in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our future strategies in a way that will mitigate the effects of increased competition in the Indian automotive industry. As a result of our international growth strategy, we also face significant competition from foreign automobile manufacturers in markets outside of India, in particular for Jaguar Land Rover’s line of vehicles. The global automotive industry is intensely competitive and competition is likely to further intensify in light of continuing globalization and consolidation in the worldwide automotive industry. Factors affecting competition include product quality and features, innovation and product development time, ability to control costs, pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy, customer service and financing terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the global automotive industry in the future. Our future success depends on our ability to satisfy changing customer demands by offering innovative products in a timely manner and maintaining such products’ competitiveness. In the competitive automotive industry, our competitors can gain significant advantage if they are able to offer products satisfying customer needs earlier than we are able to, which could adversely impact our sales and results of operations. Unanticipated 4 Table of Contents delays in implementing the introduction of new products or in expansion plans resulting in delays in capacity enhancements and / or new product launches and cost overruns could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market acceptance of our future products will meet our expectations, in which case we could be unable to realize the intended economic benefits of our investments and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The plant under construction at Singur for manufacture of Tata Nano is currently facing opposition due to political disputes over the process followed by the State Government in the acquisition of the land which has been leased to us by the State Government. While the land acquisition has been validated by the Calcutta High Court, the political disputes have persisted. Due to recent disturbances, we have temporarily suspended activities at the Singur site and are exploring alternative options at our existing/new sites. We are subject to risks associated with product liability, warranty and recall. We are subject to risks and costs associated with product liability, warranty and recall should we supply defective products, parts, or related after-sales services, which could generate adverse publicity and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such events could also require us to expend considerable resources in correcting these problems and could adversely affect demand for our products. We are subject to risk associated with our automobile financing business. We are subject to the risk associated with our automobile financing business. Any defaults by our customers or inability to repay installments as due could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may increase our borrowing costs and restrict our access to the debt markets. Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption or otherwise, we may need to reduce the amount of receivables we originate, which could adversely affect our ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Underperformance of our distribution channels and supply chains may adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our products are sold and serviced through a network of authorised dealers and service centers across India, and a network of distributors and local dealers in international markets. We monitor the performance of our dealers and distributors and provide them with support to enable them to perform to our expectations. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations will be met and the under-performance by our dealers or distributors could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on third parties to supply us with the raw materials, parts and components used in the manufacture of our products. Furthermore, for some of these parts and components, we are dependent on sole suppliers. Our ability to procure supplies in a cost effective and timely manner is subject to various factors, some of which are not always within our control. While we manage our supply chain as part of our vendor management process, any significant problems with our supply chain in the future could affect our results of operations in an adverse manner. Increases in input prices may have a material adverse impact on our result of operations. In fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, consumption of raw materials, components and aggregates constituted approximately 79.3%, 78.8% and 77.7%, respectively, of our cost of sales. Prices of commodity items used in manufacturing automobiles, including steel, rubber, copper, and zinc have significantly increased over the last two years. While we have been pursuing cost reduction programs and product price increases to partially offset these input price increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any future cost increases in commodity products through cost-saving measures elsewhere or that we will be able to sufficiently increase the selling prices of our products, which could materially and adversely impact our sales and results of operations. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to adequately address changes in commodity prices even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the recent surge in crude oil prices have increased fuel costs, which poses a significant challenge to automobile manufacturers worldwide, including us, especially in commercial vehicle segments where fuel costs represent a significant portion of the operational costs of such vehicles. The performance of our subsidiaries and affiliates may adversely affect our results of operations. We have made and may continue to make capital commitments to our subsidiaries and affiliates, and if the business and operations of subsidiaries and affiliates, to whom we make capital commitments, deteriorate, the value of our investments may be adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with growing our business through mergers and acquisitions. We have, in the past, grown in part through acquisitions such as Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited, or TDCV. See “– Recent Developments – Acquisition of the Jaguar Land Rover Business”. We will continue to evaluate growth opportunities through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future. Growth through mergers and acquisitions involve business risks, including unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition is finalized, successful integration and management of the merged/acquired entity with us, retention of key personnel, joint sales and marketing efforts, management of a larger business and diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. If we are not able to manage these risks successfully, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by labor unrest. All of our permanent employees, other than officers and managers, in India and most of our permanent employees in South Korea and the United Kingdom, including certain officers and managers, in relation to our automotive business, are members of labor unions and are covered by our wage agreements with those labor unions which have different tenures at different locations. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. However, we may in the future be subject to labor unrest, which may delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. If work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our major vendors occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability to manage our growing international business may adversely affect our results of operations. Our growth strategy also relies on the expansion of our operations to other parts of the world, including Europe, Russia and other parts of Asia. The costs involved in entering and establishing ourselves in new markets, and expanding such operations, may be higher than expected, and we may face significant competition in those regions. In addition, our international business is subject to many actual and potential risks, including language barriers, cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of receivables through the legal systems of some foreign countries, the risk of non-tariff barriers, other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. If we are unable to manage risks related to our expansion and growth in other parts of the world, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Jaguar Land Rover acquisition and the acquisition may also expose us to uncertainties and risks, any of which could adversely impact our anticipated benefits from the acquisition and could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. We acquired the Jaguar Land Rover business from Ford Motor Company on June 2, 2008. See “— Recent Developments —Acquisition of the Jaguar Land Rover Business”. We believe that the Jaguar Land Rover acquisition represents an important transaction for us, allowing us to participate immediately in the luxury performance car and premium all-terrain vehicle segments, bolster our global market position, provide business diversity, improve our overall competitiveness and enable our sustainable long-term growth plan. However, the scale, scope and nature of the integration required in connection with the acquisition present significant challenges, and we may be unable to effectively integrate various subsidiaries, divisions and facilities which comprise Jaguar Land Rover on the expected schedule. In particular, the acquisition may not meet our expectations and the realization of the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include, among other things: • difficulties in effectively managing, developing and overseeing the operations of Jaguar Land Rover, including its financial requirements, if any, information systems, policies and procedures; • unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to the acquisition that may become apparent in the future; • difficulties in managing a much larger business; and 6 Table of Contents • loss of key personnel. Furthermore, the acquisition may also expose us to uncertainties and risks, including uncertainties and risks associated with: • the cooperation between Jaguar Land Rover and Ford in areas such as engine supplies, design and development and agreed transition services; • the selection of financial services partners to provide financing for Jaguar Land Rover dealers and customers particularly in the United States; • the possible deficit in Jaguar Land Rover’s pension plans; • the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses Any of the above could adversely impact our anticipated benefits from the acquisition and could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. We may fail to raise sufficient capital under our Long Term Funding Plans and our proposed repayment of the bridge loan facility may be delayed, any of which could adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. As described in more detail in “—Recent Developments—Proposed Repayment of Bridge Financing Facility by Way of Long Term Funding Plans” our shareholders have approved our Long Term Funding Plan proposals as presented and reviewed by the Board of Directors. The execution of our refinancing plan is subject to a variety of uncertainties including, among other things, the amount of capital that other entities may seek to raise in the capital markets, receipt of regulatory or corporate approvals that are necessary, market conditions, foreign exchange movements, and other conditions that may affect investor demand for the Company’s securities, the liquidity of the capital markets and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the Company may not be able to raise this additional equity on terms or with a structure that is favorable to the Company, if at all. We cannot assure you that any of the conditions for the Long Term Funding Plans will be satisfied, or that any of the conditions will be satisfied in the timeframe that we expect. If we or any other relevant parties are unable to satisfy any of the conditions for our Long Term Funding Plans or satisfy these conditions in the timeframe that we expect, we may not be able to repay our bridge financing facility in the timeframe that we expect, which could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. Political and Regulatory Risks. India’s obligations under the World Trade Organisation Agreement. India’s obligation under its World Trade Organization agreement could lower the present level of tariffs on import of components and vehicles particularly with respect to cars in completely built units and/or completely knocked down units, which could adversely affect, our sales and results of operations. Environmental, Fiscal and Other Governmental regulations. As an automobile company, we are subjected to extensive governmental regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, noise, safety and levels of pollutants generated by our production facilities. These regulations are likely to become more stringent and compliance costs may significantly impact our future results of operations. In particular, Jaguar Land Rover has significant operations in the U.S. and Europe which have stringent regulations relating to vehicular emissions. The proposed tightening of vehicle emissions regulations by the European Union will require significant costs of compliance for Jaguar Land Rover. While we are pursuing various technologies in order to meet the required standards in the various countries in which we operate, the costs of compliance with these required standards can be significant to our operations and may adversely impact our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Imposition of any additional taxes and levies by the Indian government designed to limit the use of automobiles could adversely affect the demand for our products and our results of operations. Changes in corporate and other taxation policies as well as change in export and other incentives given by the Central government and government at state level could also adversely affect our results of operations. Regulations in the areas of investments, taxes and levies may also have an impact on Indian securities, including our shares and ADSs. We may be adversely impacted by political instability, wars, terrorism, multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics and labor strikes. Our products are exported to a number of geographical markets and we plan to expand our international operations further in the future. Consequently, we are subject to various risks associated with conducting our business outside India and our operations may be subject to political instability within and outside India, wars, terrorism, regional and/or multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages, epidemics and labor strikes. Any significant or prolonged disruptions or delays in our operations related to these risks could adversely impact our results of operations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) regulations, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing rules and Indian stock market listing regulations, have increased complexity for us. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2008, we assessed internal controls over financial reporting, and determined that internal controls were effective. We will undertake assessments of internal controls over financial reporting in connection with each annual report. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. However, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management resources and time. Risks associated with Investments in an Indian Company. Political changes in the Government in India could delay and/or affect the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Most of our manufacturing and sales and distribution facilities are located in India, and in fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 82.4%, 80.7% and 80.4% respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales within India. Our business, and the market price and liquidity of our ADSs and shares, may be affected by foreign exchange rates and controls, interest rates, changes in government policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Indian Governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the roles of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators have remained significant. Consequent to an election in April and May 2004, there was a change in government. While the current coalition government has already committed to a common minimum agenda, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in the economic reform, and specific laws and policies affecting automotive companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and investment regulations governing India’s capital markets that could negatively affect us. Uncertainty regarding possible policy changes immediately after elections has in the past resulted in significant volatility in price and trading volumes of securities of Indian companies. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular, if new restrictions on the private sector are introduced or if existing restrictions are increased. Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our business and our profitability. India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and hostilities, including terrorist attacks and riots and armed conflict with neighboring countries. Events of this nature in the future could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our ADSs and shares, and on the market for our vehicles. 8 Table of Contents Rights of shareholders under Indian law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Association, which include regulations applicable to our Board of Directors, and Indian law govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to these matters and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may differ from those that would apply to a company incorporated in another jurisdiction. Shareholders’ rights under Indian law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries or jurisdictions, including the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Indian securities market. The Indian stock exchanges have, in the past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of their listed securities. The Indian stock exchanges, including the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE), have experienced problems that, if they continue or recur, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our shares. These problems in the past included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Furthermore, from time to time disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. There may be a different level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants than in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) received statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. Subsequently, SEBI has prescribed regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, insider dealing and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States. Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us or our management. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. Substantially all of our directors and executive officers named in this annual report are residents of India and all or substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these directors and executive officers are located in India. As a result, investors may find it difficult to (i) effect service of process upon us or these directors and executive officers in jurisdictions outside of India, (ii) enforce court judgments obtained outside of India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers, (iii) enforce, in an Indian court, court judgments obtained outside of India, including those based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers, and (iv) obtain expeditious adjudication of an original action in an Indian court to enforce liabilities, including those based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, against us or these directors and executive officers. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. Recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided under Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or the Civil Code. Section 13 and Section 44A of the Civil Code provide that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (i) where it has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (ii) where it has not been given on the merits of the case, (iii) where it appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where Indian law is applicable, (iv) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (v) where it has been obtained by fraud or (vi) where it sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Civil Code provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a superior court in any country or territory outside India which the Government has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. However, Section 44A of the Civil Code is applicable only to monetary decrees not being in the nature of any amounts payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty. The United States has not been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purpose of Section 44A of the Civil Code. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by a suit upon the judgment and not by proceedings in execution. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign 9 Table of Contents judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with public policy. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to execute such a judgment or to repatriate outside India any amount recovered. Risks associated with our Shares and ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on the market value of the ADSs and the shares, independent of our operating results. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar will affect, among others things, the dollar equivalents of the price of the shares in rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in rupees received on the shares represented by the ADSs and the dollar equivalent of the proceeds in rupees of a sale of shares in India. The exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar has changed substantially in the last two decades and may substantially fluctuate in the future. The value of the rupee against the dollar was Rs.46.48 = US$ 1.00 as of September 26, 2008. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Although holders of ADSs have a right to receive any dividends declared in respect of shares underlying the ADSs, they cannot exercise voting or other direct rights as a shareholder with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by ADRs. Citibank, N.A., as depositary is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying our ADSs, and therefore only Citibank, N.A. can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited shares. Only if requested by us, the depositary will notify holders of ADSs of upcoming votes and arrange to deliver our voting materials to holders of ADSs. The depositary will try, in so far as practicable, subject to Indian laws and the provisions of our Articles of Association, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited securities as instructed by the holders of ADSs. If the depositary receives voting instructions in time from a holder of ADSs which fail to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote the shares underlying such holder’s ADSs, such holder will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to vote in favor of the items set forth in such voting instructions. If the depositary has not received timely instructions from a holder of ADSs, the holder shall be deemed to have instructed the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us, subject to the conditions set forth in the deposit agreement. If requested by us, the depositary is required to represent all shares underlying ADSs, regardless whether timely instructions have been received from the holders of such ADSs, for the sole purpose of establishing a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. Additionally, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights. Registered holders of our shares withdrawn from the depositary arrangements will be entitled to vote and exercise other direct shareholder rights in accordance with Indian law. However, a holder may not know about a meeting sufficiently in advance to withdraw the underlying shares in time. Furthermore, a holder of ADSs may not receive voting materials, if we do not instruct the depositary to distribute such materials, or may not receive such voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. Further, pursuant to Indian regulations, we are required to offer our shareholders pre-emptive rights to subscribe for proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issue of new shares. These rights may be waived by a resolution passed by at least 75% of our shareholders present and voting at a general meeting. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise pre-emptive rights for subscribing to these new shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective or an exemption from the registration requirements is available to us. Our decision to file a registration statement would be based on the costs, timing, potential liabilities and the perceived benefits associated with any such registration statement and we do not commit that we would file such a registration statement. If any issue of securities is made to our shareholders in the future, such securities may also be issued to the Depositary, which may sell such securities in the Indian securities market for the benefit of the holders of ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of these rights/securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise pre-emptive rights, their proportionate interest in us would be reduced. As a result of Indian Government regulation of foreign ownership the price of the ADSs could decline. Foreign ownership of Indian securities is regulated and is partially restricted. In addition, there are restrictions on the deposit of shares into our ADS facilities. ADSs issued by companies in certain emerging markets, including India, may trade at a discount to the underlying equity shares, in part because of the restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares and in part because ADSs are sometimes perceived to offer less liquidity than underlying shares which can be traded freely in local markets by both local and international investors. See Item 10.D “— Exchange Controls”. The ADSs could trade at a discount to the market price of the underlying shares. 10 Table of Contents 