D. Risk Factors This section describes the risks that we currently believe may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 20-F and the cautionary statements on page ii. Although we will be making reasonable efforts to mitigate or minimize these risks, one or more of a combination of these risks could materially and adversely impact our business, revenues, sales, and net assets, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and prospects. Risk associated with Our Business and the Automotive Industry Deterioration in global economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. The automotive industry, and the demand for automobiles are influenced by general economic conditions, including among other things, rates of economic growth, credit availability, disposable income of consumers, interest rates, environmental and tax policies, safety regulations, freight rates and fuel and commodity prices. Negative trends in any of these factors impacting the regions where we operate could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Indian automotive industry is affected materially by the general economic conditions in India and around the world. Muted industrial growth in India in recent years along with continuing higher inflation and interest rates continue to pose risks to overall growth in this market. The automotive industry in general is cyclical and economic slowdowns in the recent past have affected the manufacturing sector in India, including the automotive and related industries. A continuation of negative economic trends or further deterioration in key economic metrics such as the growth rate, interest rates and inflation as well as reduced availability of financing for vehicles at competitive rates could materially and adversely affect our automotive sales in India and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents In addition, investors’ reactions to economic developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies and the economy as a whole, in other countries, including India. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause volatility in Indian financial markets and indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. In July 2015, stock markets in China experienced a substantial decline in values, which may have contributed to a drop in the price of our Shares and/or ADSs. Any worldwide financial instability could also have a negative impact on the Indian economy, including the movement of exchange rates and interest rates in India. In the event global economic recovery is slower than expected, or if there is any significant financial disruption, this could have a material adverse effect on our cost of funding, portfolio of financing loans, business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our Shares and ADSs. Our Jaguar Land Rover business has significant operations in the United Kingdom, North America, continental Europe and China as well as sales operations in many other countries across the globe. While the automotive market in the United States, United Kingdom and Europe experienced healthy growth in Fiscal 2015, low economic growth in the Eurozone prompted the European Central Bank to engage in quantitative easing beginning in January 2015, and uncertainty over debt negotiations with Greece remains. Economic sanctions and declining energy prices continue to impact Russia. Recessionary concerns are mounting in Brazil while China’s economy is showing signs of slowing. Jaguar Land Rovers’ ambitions for growth in emerging markets such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, may not materialize as expected, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial performance. If automotive demand softens because of lower or negative economic growth in key markets (notably China) or other factors, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Restrictive covenants in our financing agreements may limit our operations and financial flexibility and materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of our financing agreements and debt arrangements set limits on and/or require us to obtain lender consent before, among other things, pledging assets as security. In addition, certain financial covenants may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to incur additional liens. In the past, we have been able to obtain required lender consent for such activities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such consents in the future. If our liquidity needs or growth plans require such consents and such consents are not obtained, we may be forced to forego or alter our plans, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event we breach these covenants, the outstanding amounts due under such financing agreements could become due and payable immediately and/or result in increased costs. A default under one of these financing agreements may also result in cross-defaults under other financing agreements and result in the outstanding amounts under such other financing agreements becoming due and payable immediately. Defaults under one or more of our financing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, including Fiscal 2014, we were in breach of financial covenants relating to our ratio of total outstanding liabilities to tangible net worth and to our debt service coverage ratio in various financing agreements requested and obtained waivers of our obligations to pay additional costs as a consequence of such breaches. These breaches have not resulted in an event of default in our financing agreements or the payment of penalties. However, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining consents or waivers in the future from our lenders or guarantors, or that our lenders and guarantors will not impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us, or otherwise seek to modify the terms of our existing financing agreements in ways that are materially adverse to us. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Loan Covenants.” In addition, future non-compliance with the financial covenants of our agreements may lead to increased cost for future financings. Exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates with reference to countries in which we operate. We import capital equipment, raw materials and components from, manufacture vehicles in, and sell vehicles into, various countries, and therefore our revenues and costs have significant exposure to the relative movements of the GBP, the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian Ruble, the Chinese Renminbi, the Singapore dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Australian dollar, the South African rand, the Thai baht, the Korean won and the Indian rupee. In particular, the Indian rupee declined significantly relative to the U.S. dollar in recent years. As published by Bloomberg L.P. the exchange rate expressed in Indian rupees per US$1.00, was Rs.63.65 on June 30, 2015. 5 Table of Contents Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. We also have interest-bearing assets (including cash balances) and interest bearing liabilities, which bear interest at variable rates. We are therefore exposed to changes in interest rates in the various markets in which we borrow. Although we engage in managing our interest and foreign exchange exposure through use of financial hedging instruments such as forward contracts, swap agreements and option contracts, higher interest rates and a weakening of the Indian rupee against major foreign currencies could significantly increase our cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations. The global automotive industry is highly competitive and competition is likely to further intensify in light of continuing globalization and consolidation. Competition is especially likely to increase in the premium automotive categories as each market participant intensifies its efforts to retain its position in established markets while also expanding in emerging markets, such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia. Factors affecting competition include product quality and features, innovation and the timing of the introduction of new products, cost control, pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy, environmental impact and perception thereof, customer service and financing terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the global automotive industry in the future. We also face strong competition in the Indian market from domestic as well as foreign automobile manufacturers. Improving infrastructure and growth prospects compared to other mature markets have attracted a number of international companies to India either through joint ventures with local partners or through independently owned operations in India. International competitors bring with them decades of international experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant financial resources. Consequently, domestic competition is likely to further intensify in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our future strategies in a way that will mitigate the effects of increased competition on the Indian automotive industry. Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in facilities, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both customer preferences and regulatory requirements. If our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements, they may be able to take better advantage of economies of scale or enhance their competitiveness in other ways. Our competitors may also be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect our competitiveness with respect to those competitors, which could also materially reduce our sales as well as materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to satisfy changing customer demands by offering innovative products in a timely manner and maintaining such products’ competitiveness and quality. Our competitors may gain significant advantages if they are able to offer products satisfying customer needs earlier than we are able to and this could adversely impact our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Unanticipated delays or cost overruns in implementing new product launches, expansion plans or capacity enhancements could also materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Customer preferences, especially in many developed markets, seem to be moving in favor of more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. In addition, increased government regulations, volatile fuel prices and evolving environment preferences of consumers has brought significant pressure on the automotive industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Our operations may be significantly impacted if we experience delays in developing fuel efficient products that reflect changing customer preferences. In addition, a deterioration in the quality of our vehicles could force us to incur substantial costs and damage our reputation. There can be no assurance that the market acceptance of our future products will meet our sales expectations, in which case we may be unable to realize the intended economic benefits of our investments and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Private and commercial users of transportation increasingly use modes of transportation other than the automobile. The reasons for this include the rising costs of automotive transport, increasing traffic density in major cities and environmental awareness. Furthermore, the increased use of car-sharing concepts and other innovative mobility initiatives facilitates access to other methods of transport, thereby reducing dependency on the private automobile. A shift in consumer preferences away from private automobiles would have a material adverse effect on our general business activity and on our sales, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents To stimulate demand, competitors in the automotive industry have offered customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and services, which has led to increased price pressures and sharpened competition within the industry. As a provider of numerous high-volume models, our profitability and cash flows are significantly affected by the risk of rising competitive price pressures. Special sales incentives and increased price pressures in the new car business also influence price levels in the used car market, with a negative effect on vehicle resale values. This may have a negative impact on the profitability of the used car business in our dealer organization. We are subject to risks associated with product liability, warranty and recall. We are subject to risks and costs associated with product liability, warranties and recalls. Should we supply defective products, parts, or related after-sales services, we are subject to risks and costs associated with product liability, including negative publicity, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such events could also require us to expend considerable resources in correcting these problems and could significantly reduce demand for our products. In Fiscal 2015 and the first half of Fiscal 2016, we implemented product recalls for Jaguar Land Rover vehicles sold in North America and China. We may also be subject to class actions or other large scale product liability or other lawsuits in various jurisdictions where we conduct business. We are subject to risks associated with the automobile financing business. In India, we are subject to risks associated with our automobile financing business. Any default by our customers or inability to repay installments as due could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any downgrade in our credit ratings may increase our borrowing costs and restrict our access to the debt markets. Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory changes or otherwise, we may need to reduce the amount of financing receivables we originate, which could severely disrupt our ability to support the sale of our vehicles. The sale of our commercial and passenger vehicles is heavily dependent on funding availability for our customers. Rising delinquencies and early defaults have contributed to a reduction in automobile financing, which, in turn, has had an adverse effect on funding availability for potential customers. This reduction in available financing may continue in the future and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Jaguar Land Rover has consumer financing arrangements in place with local providers in a number of key markets. Any reduction in the supply of available consumer financing for purchase of new vehicles could create additional pressures to increase marketing incentives in order to maintain demand for our vehicles. This could materially reduce our sales and net income. Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover also offers residual value guarantees on the leases of certain vehicles in some markets. Any significant declines in used car valuations could materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit rating downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory changes or otherwise, we may need to reduce the amount of financing receivables that we originate, which could severely disrupt our ability to support the sale of our vehicles. Underperformance of our distribution channels and supply chains may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our products are sold and serviced through a network of authorized dealers and service centers across India and through a network of distributors and local dealers in international markets. We monitor the performance of our dealers and distributors and provide them with support to enable them to perform to our expectations. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations will be met. Any underperformance by our dealers or distributors could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We rely on third parties to supply us with the raw materials, parts and components used in the manufacture of our products. For some of these parts and components, we are dependent on a single source. Our ability to procure supplies in a cost effective and timely manner is subject to various factors, some of which are not within our control. While we manage our supply chain as part of our vendor management process, any significant problems with our supply chain in the future could disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations as well as our sales, net income and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Natural disasters and man-made accidents, adverse economic conditions, decline in automobile demand, lack of access to sufficient financing arrangements, among others things, could have a negative financial impact on our suppliers, thereby impairing timely availability of components to us or causing increase in the costs of components. Similarly a deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors for any reason may adversely impact our performance. In addition, if one or more of the other global automotive manufacturers were to become insolvent, this would have an adverse effect on our supply chains and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In respect of our Jaguar Land Rover operations, as part of a separation agreement from Ford Motor Company, we have entered into long-term supply agreements for critical components with Ford Motor Company for the supply of engines and certain other third parties for critical components which requires Jaguar Land Rover to purchase fixed quantities of parts through take-or-pay contracts. Any disruption of such services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in input prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In Fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, the consumption of raw materials, components and aggregates and purchase of products for sale (including changes in inventory) constituted approximately 61.0%, 61.7% and 63.4% respectively, of our total revenues. Prices of commodity items used in manufacturing automobiles, including steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, rubber, platinum, palladium and rhodium have become increasingly volatile in recent years. Further price movements would closely depend on the evolving economic scenarios across the globe. While we continue to pursue cost reduction initiatives, an increase in price of input materials could severely impact our profitability to the extent such increase cannot be absorbed by the market through price increases and/or could have a negative impact on demand. In addition, an increased price and supply risk could arise from the need for rare and frequently sought-after raw materials for which demand is high, such as rare earths, which are predominantly found in China. Rare earth metal prices and supply remain uncertain. In the past, China has limited the export of rare earths from time to time. Due to intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to adequately address changes in commodity prices even if they are foreseeable. Increases in fuel costs also pose a significant challenge, especially in the commercial and premium vehicle categories where increased fuel prices have an impact on demand. If we are unable to find substitutes for supplies of raw materials or pass price increases on to customers, or to safeguard the supply of scarce raw materials, our vehicle production, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Deterioration in the performance of any of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates may adversely affect our results of operations. We have made and may continue to make capital commitments to our subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates, and if the business or operations of any of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates deteriorates, the value of our investments may decline substantially. We are also subject to risks associated with joint ventures and affiliates wherein we retain only partial or joint control. Our partners may be unable, or unwilling, to fulfill their obligations, or the strategies of our joint ventures or affiliates may not be implemented successfully, which may significantly reduce the value of our investments, and, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position or results of operations. The significant reliance of Jaguar Land Rover on key markets increases the risk of negative impact of reduced customer demand in those countries. Jaguar Land Rover, which contributes a large portion of our revenues, generates a significant portion of its sales in China, the United Kingdom, North American and continental European markets. Furthermore, in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2015, retail sales of Jaguar Land Rover in China decreased by 20.4% to 23,526 units from 29,567 units compared to the same period in Fiscal 2014. This decline in retail sales of Jaguar Land Rover has continued in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. A decline in demand for Jaguar Land Rover vehicles in these key markets, including China, or inability to maintain its pricing strategy in these markets, including China, may significantly impair our business, growth prospects, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with growing our business through mergers and acquisitions. We believe that our acquisitions provide us opportunities to grow significantly in the global automobile markets by offering premium brands and products. Our acquisitions have provided us with access to technology and additional capabilities while also offering potential synergies. However, the scale, scope and nature of the integration required in connection with our acquisitions present significant challenges, and we may be unable to integrate the relevant subsidiaries, divisions and facilities effectively within our expected schedule. An acquisition may not meet our expectations and the realization of the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. 8 Table of Contents For example, we acquired the Jaguar Land Rover business from Ford Motor Company in June 2008, and Jaguar Land Rover has become a significant part of our business and accounted for approximately 82.9% of our total revenues for Fiscal 2015. As a result of the acquisition, we are responsible for, among other things, the obligations and liabilities associated with the legacy business of Jaguar Land Rover. There can be no assurances that any legacy issues at Jaguar Land Rover or any other acquisition we have undertaken in the past or will undertake in the future would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our reputation and prospects. We will continue to evaluate growth opportunities through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future. Growth through mergers and acquisitions involves business risks, including unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition is completed. The key success factors are seamless integration, effective management of the merged and/or acquired entity, retention of key personnel, cash flow generation from synergies in engineering and sourcing, joint sales and marketing efforts, and management of a larger business. If any of these factors fails to materialize or if we are unable to manage any of the associated risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is seasonal in nature and a substantial decrease in our sales during certain quarters could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. The sales volumes and prices for our vehicles are influenced by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand for these products. The automotive industry has been cyclical in the past and we expect this cyclicality to continue. In the Indian market, demand for our vehicles generally peaks between January and March, although there is a decrease in demand in February just before release of the Indian fiscal budget. Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in the festival season from September onwards, with a decline in December due to year end as customers defer purchases to the new year. Our Jaguar Land Rover business is impacted by the semi-annual registration of vehicles in the United Kingdom where the vehicle registration number changes every March and September, which, in turn, has an impact on the resale value of vehicles. Most other markets, such as the United States, are influenced by the introduction of new-model-year products which typically occurs in the autumn of each year, and there is some seasonality around the purchase of vehicles in northern states where the purchase of Jaguar vehicles is concentrated in the spring and summer months, and the purchase of 4x4 vehicles is concentrated in the autumn/winter months. Markets in China tend to experience higher demand for vehicles around the Chinese New Year. Demand in western European automotive markets tends to be reduced during the summer and winter holidays. Furthermore, our cash flows are impacted by the temporary shutdown of three of our manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom during the summer and winter holidays. The resulting sales and cash flow profile influences operating results on a quarter to quarter basis. We rely on licensing arrangements with Tata Sons Limited to use the “Tata” brand. Any improper use of the associated trademarks by our licensor or any other third parties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to our trade names and trademarks are a crucial factor in marketing our products. Establishment of the “Tata” word mark and logo mark in and outside India is material to our operations. We have licensed the use of the “Tata” brand from our Promoter, Tata Sons Limited, or Tata Sons. If Tata Sons, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or any third party uses the trade name “Tata” in ways that adversely affect such trade name or trademark, our reputation could suffer damage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability to protect or preserve our intellectual property could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We own or otherwise have rights in respect of a number of patents relating to the products we manufacture. In connection with the design and engineering of new vehicles and the enhancement of existing models, we seek to regularly develop new intellectual property. We also use technical designs which are the intellectual property of third parties with such third parties’ consent. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. Although we do not regard any of our businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, an inability to protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal breach of some or a large group of our intellectual property rights, would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be affected by restrictions on the use of intellectual property rights held by third parties and we may be held legally liable for the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others in our products. 9 Table of Contents Impairment of intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in intangible assets such as research and development, product design and engineering technology. We review the value of our intangible assets to assess on an annual basis whether the carrying amount matches the recoverable amount for the asset concerned based on underlying cash-generating units. We may have to take an impairment loss as at a current balance sheet date or future balance sheet date, if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations. We may be adversely affected by labor unrest. All of our permanent employees in India, other than officers and managers, and most of our permanent employees in South Korea and the United Kingdom, including certain officers and managers, in relation to our automotive business, are members of labor unions and are covered by our wage agreements, where applicable, with those labor unions. In general, we consider our labor relations with all of our employees to be good. However, in the future we may be subject to labor unrest, which may delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. If work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our major vendors occur or continue for a long period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business and prospects could suffer if we lose one or more key personnel or if we are unable to attract and retain our employees. Our business and future growth depend largely on the skills of our workforce, including executives and officers, and automotive designers and engineers. The loss of the services of one or more of our personnel could impair our ability to implement our business strategy. In view of intense competition, any inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate our workforce could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Future pension obligations may prove more costly than currently anticipated and the market value of assets in our pension plans could decline. We provide post-retirement and pension benefits to our employees, including defined benefit plans. Our pension liabilities are generally funded. However, lower returns on pension fund assets, changes in market conditions, interest rates or inflation rates, and adverse changes in other critical actuarial assumptions, may impact our pension liabilities or assets and consequently increase funding requirements, which could materially decrease our net income and cash flows. Any inability to manage our growing international business may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy relies on the expansion of our operations by introducing certain automotive products in markets outside India, including Europe, China, Russia, Brazil, the United States, Africa and other parts of Asia. The costs associated with entering and establishing ourselves in new markets, and expanding such operations, may be higher than expected, and we may face significant competition in those regions. In addition, our international business is subject to many actual and potential risks and challenges, including language barriers, cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection of receivables under the legal systems of some foreign countries, the risk of non-tariff barriers, other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, rules and regulations. As part of our global activities, we may engage with third-party dealers and distributors which we do not control but which nevertheless take actions that could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not be held responsible for any activities undertaken by such dealers and distributors. If we are unable to manage risks related to our expansion and growth in other parts of the world, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any disruption of the operations of our manufacturing, design, engineering and other facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have manufacturing facilities and design and engineering centers in India, the United Kingdom, China, South Korea, Thailand, South Africa and Brazil, and have established a presence in Indonesia. We could experience disruptions to our manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, extreme weather, fire, theft, system failures, natural catastrophes, mechanical or equipment failures and similar events. Any such disruptions could affect our ability to design, manufacture and sell our products and, if any of these events were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to shift our design, engineering or manufacturing operations to alternate sites in a timely manner or at all, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We are exposed to operational risks, including risks in connection with our use of information technology. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal systems and processes, from either internal or external events. Such risks could stem from inadequacy or failures of controls within internal procedures, violations of internal policies by employees, disruptions or malfunctioning of information technology systems such as computer networks and telecommunication systems, other mechanical or equipment failures, human error, natural disasters or malicious acts by third parties. Any unauthorized access to or misuse of data on our information technology systems, human errors or technological or process failures of any kind could severely disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing, design and engineering processes, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We may be materially and adversely affected by the divulgence of confidential information. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to protect confidential information such as key contractual provisions, future projects, and customer records, such information may be divulged, including as a result of hacking or other threats from cyberspace. If this occurs, we could be subject to claims by affected parties, negative publicity and loss of proprietary information, all of which could have an adverse and material impact our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any failures or weaknesses in our internal controls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As discussed in Item 15 “Controls and Procedures,” upon an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting conducted as at March 31, 2015, we concluded that there was a material weakness such that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as at March 31, 2015. Although we have instituted remedial measures to address the material weakness identified and continually review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such additional weaknesses or failure to adequately remediate any existing weakness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to accurately report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and reliable manner. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us against all potential losses to which we may be subject, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that the insurance coverage that we maintain is reasonably adequate to cover all normal risks associated with the operation of our business, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, that any claim under our insurance policies will be honored fully or in a timely manner, or that our insurance premiums will not increase substantially. Accordingly, to the extent that we suffer loss or damage that is not covered by insurance or which exceeds our insurance coverage, or are required to pay higher insurance premiums, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be negatively affected by the actions of activist shareholders. Certain of our shareholders may from time to time advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our business. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly listed companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases or even sales of assets or the entire company, or by voting against proposals put forward by the board of directors and management of the company. If faced with actions by activist shareholders, we may not be able to respond effectively to such actions, which could be disruptive to our business. We may have to comply with more stringent foreign investment regulations in India in the event of an increase in shareholding of non-residents or if we are considered as engaged in a sector in which foreign investment is restricted. Indian companies, which are owned or controlled by non-resident persons, are subject to investment restrictions specified in the Consolidated FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) Policy. Under the Consolidated FDI Policy, an Indian company is considered to be “owned” by a non-resident persons if more than 50% of its equity interest is beneficially owned by non-resident persons. The non-resident equity shareholding in the our company may, in the near future, exceed 50%, thereby resulting in our company being considered as being “owned” by non-resident entities under the Consolidated FDI Policy. In such an event, any investment by us in existing subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and new subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures will be considered as indirect foreign investment and shall be subject to various requirements specified under the Consolidated FDI Policy, including sectoral limits, approval requirements and pricing guidelines, as may be applicable. 11 Table of Contents Furthermore, as part of our automotive business, we supply and have in the past supplied vehicles to Indian military and paramilitary forces and in the course of such activities have obtained an industrial license from the Department of Industrial Policy. The Consolidated FDI policy applies different foreign investment restrictions to companies based upon the sector in which they operate. While we believe we are an automobile company by virtue of the significance of our automobile operations, in the event that foreign investment regulations applicable to the defense sector (including under the Consolidated FDI Policy) are made applicable to us, we may face more stringent foreign investment restrictions and other compliance requirements compared to those applicable to us presently, which in turn could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require certain approvals or licenses in the ordinary course of business, and the failure to obtain or retain them in a timely manner, or at all, could materially and adversely affect its operations. We require certain statutory and regulatory permits, licenses and approvals to carry out our business operations and applications for their renewal need to be made within certain time frames. For some of the approvals which may have expired, we have either made or are in the process of making an application for obtaining the approval or its renewal. While we have applied for renewal for such approvals, registrations and permits, we cannot assure you that we will receive them in a timely manner or at all. We can make no assurances that the approvals, licenses, registrations and permits issued to us would not be suspended or revoked in the event of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with any terms or conditions thereof, or pursuant to any regulatory action. Furthermore, if we are unable to renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any downgrading of India’s debt rating by a domestic or international rating agency could negatively impact our business. Any adverse revisions to India’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by domestic or international rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to raise additional financing as well as the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, business prospects, ability to obtain financing for capital expenditures and the price of our Shares and ADSs. Political and Regulatory Risks India’s obligations under the World Trade Organization Agreement could materially affect our business. India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement could reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components and vehicles. Reductions of import tariffs could result in increased competition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our sales, business, financial condition and results of operations. New or changing laws, regulations and government policies regarding increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and other emissions, vehicle safety and taxes may have significant impact on our business. As an automobile company, we are subject to extensive governmental regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, noise, safety and levels of pollutants generated by our production facilities. These regulations are likely to become more stringent and the resulting higher compliance costs may significantly impact our future results of operations. In particular, the United States and Europe have stringent regulations relating to vehicle emissions. The proposed tightening of vehicle emissions regulations by the European Union will require significant costs for compliance. While we are pursuing various technologies in order to meet the required standards in the various countries in which we sell our vehicles, the costs for compliance with these required standards may be significant to our operations and may adversely impact our results of operations. In order to comply with current and future safety and environmental norms, we may have to incur additional costs to (i) operate and maintain our production facilities, (ii) install new emissions controls or reduction technologies, (iii) purchase or otherwise obtain allowances to emit greenhouse gases, (iv) administer and manage our greenhouse gas emissions program, and (v) invest in research and development to upgrade products and manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to develop commercially viable technologies or otherwise unable to attain compliance within the time frames set by the new standards, we could face significant civil penalties or be forced to restrict product offerings significantly. Moreover, safety and environmental standards may at times impose conflicting imperatives, which pose engineering challenges and would, among other things, increase our costs. While we are pursuing the development and implementation of various technologies in order meet the required standards in the various countries in which we sell our vehicles, the costs for compliance with these required standards could be significant to our operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the Road Transport and Safety Bill (RTSB) 2015, which is subject to legislative approval by the Indian Parliament, could expose us to additional liability for vehicle recalls and for manufacturer’s liability for our vehicles. Imposition of any additional taxes and levies designed to limit the use of automobiles could significantly reduce the demand for our products as well as our sales and net income. Changes in corporate and other taxation policies as well as changes in export and other incentives given by various governments could also adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we benefit from excise duty exemptions for manufacturing facilities in the state of Uttarakhand and other incentives such as subsidies or loans from states where we have manufacturing operations. The Government of India had proposed a comprehensive national goods and services tax, or GST, regime that would combine taxes and levies by the central and state governments into one unified rate structure. While both the Government of India and state governments of India have publicly announced that all committed incentives will be protected following the implementation of the GST, given the limited availability of information in the public domain concerning the GST, we are unable to provide any assurance as to this or any other aspect of the tax regime following implementation of the GST. The implementation of this rationalized tax structure may be affected by any disagreement between certain state governments, which could create uncertainty. The Government of India has publicly announced its intention to implement the GST on April 1, 2016, however, we can make no assurances regarding this timeline. Regulations in the areas of investments, taxes and levies may also have an impact on Indian securities, including our Shares and ADSs. For more information, see Item 4.B “—Business Overview—Government Regulations” of this annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, the antitrust regulator in China, the Bureau of Price Supervision and Anti-Monopoly of the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, launched an investigation into the pricing practices of more than 1,000 Chinese and international companies in the automotive industry, including Jaguar Land Rover and many of its competitors, in 2014. The NDRC has reportedly imposed fines on certain of our international competitors as a result of anti-competitive practices pertaining to vehicle and spare part pricing. In response to this investigation, we established a process to review our pricing in China and announced reductions in the manufacturer’s suggested retail price for the 5.0 liter V8 models and the price of certain of our spare parts. These and other price reductions on our products sold in China may significantly reduce our revenues and profits generated by operations in China and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our attempts to offset the potential decline in revenue and profits by increasing operational efficiencies and leveraging economies of scale (for example, through local production in China through our joint venture with Chery Automobile Company Ltd., or Chery) may fail or not be as successful as expected. Furthermore, any regulatory action taken, or penalties imposed, by the NDRC or other authorities in China, may have significant severe reputational consequences on our business as well as our profitability and prospects. We may be affected by competition law in India and any adverse application or interpretation of the Competition Act could adversely affect our business. The Indian Competition Act regulates practices having an appreciable adverse effect on competition, or AAEC, in a given relevant market in India. Under the Competition Act, any formal or informal arrangement, understanding or action in concert which causes or is likely to cause an AAEC is considered void and results in imposition of substantial penalties. Consequently, all agreements entered into by us could be within the purview of the Competition Act. Furthermore, any agreement among competitors which directly or indirectly involves determination of purchase or sale prices, limits or controls production, sharing the market by way of geographical area or number of subscribers in the relevant market or which directly or indirectly results in bid-rigging or collusive bidding is presumed to have an AAEC in the relevant market in India and is considered void. The Competition Act also prohibits abuse of a dominant position by any enterprise. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of the provisions of the Competition Act on our agreements at this stage. On March 4, 2011, the Government of India issued and brought into force the combination regulation (merger control) provisions under the Competition Act with effect from June 1, 2011. These provisions require acquisitions of shares, voting rights, assets or control or mergers or amalgamations that cross the prescribed asset- and turnover-based thresholds to be mandatorily notified to and pre-approved by the Competition Commission of India, or CCI. Additionally, on May 11, 2011, the CCI issued Competition Commission of India (Procedure for Transaction of Business Relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (as amended), which sets out the mechanism for the implementation of the merger control regime in India. Furthermore, the CCI has extraterritorial powers and can investigate any agreements, abusive conduct or combination occurring outside India if such agreement, conduct or combination has an AAEC in India. The CCI has initiated an inquiry against us and other car manufacturers, collectively referred to hereinafter as the OEMs, pursuant to an allegation that genuine spare parts of automobiles manufactured by the OEMs were not made freely available in the open market in India and, accordingly, anti-competitive practices were carried out by the OEMs. 13 Table of Contents If we are adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by the application or interpretation of any provision of the Competition Act, or any enforcement proceedings initiated by the CCI, or any adverse publicity that may be generated due to scrutiny or prosecution by the CCI or if any prohibition or substantial penalties are levied under the Competition Act, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by political instability, wars, terrorism, multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics and labor strikes. Our products are exported to a number of geographical markets and we plan to further expand our international operations in the future. Consequently, our operations in those markets may be subject to political instability, wars, terrorism, regional or multinational conflicts, natural disasters, fuel shortages, epidemics and labor strikes. In addition, conducting business internationally, especially in emerging markets, exposes us to additional risks, including adverse changes in economic and government policies, unpredictable shifts in regulation, inconsistent application of existing laws, rules and regulations, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures. Any significant or prolonged disruption or delay in our operations related to these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new or changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. We are subject to a complex and continuously changing regime of laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, regulations, New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing rules, the Companies Act as well as Indian stock market listing regulations. New or changed laws, rules, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. As an example, pursuant to the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions, the SEC has adopted additional rules and regulations in areas such as “say on pay”. Similarly, under applicable Indian laws, for example, remuneration packages may in certain circumstances require shareholders’ approval. Our management and other personnel may be required to devote a substantial amount of time to such compliance initiatives. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. However, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management resources and time. The Companies Act has effected significant changes to the existing Indian company law framework, which may subject us to higher compliance requirements and increase our compliance costs. A majority of the provisions and rules under the Companies Act have been notified and have come into effect from the date of their respective notification, resulting in the corresponding provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 ceasing to have effect. The Companies Act has brought into effect significant changes to the Indian company law framework, such as in the provisions related to the issue of capital (including provisions in relation to issue of securities on a private placement basis), disclosures in offering documents, corporate governance norms, accounting policies and audit matters, related party transactions, introduction of a provision allowing the initiation of class action suits in India against companies by shareholders or depositors, a restriction on investment by an Indian company through more than two layers of subsidiary investment companies (subject to certain permitted exceptions), prohibitions on loans to directors and insider trading and restrictions on forward dealing by directors and key managerial personnel. We are also required to spend, in each financial year, at least 2% of our average net profits during the three immediately preceding financial years, calculated for Tata Motors Limited on a standalone basis under Indian GAAP, towards corporate social responsibility activities. Furthermore, the Companies Act imposes greater monetary and other liability on us and our directors for any non-compliance. To ensure compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act, we may need to allocate additional resources, which may increase our regulatory compliance costs and divert management’s attention. Accordingly, we may face challenges in interpreting and complying with certain provisions of the Companies Act due to limited relevant jurisprudence. In the event that our interpretation of the Companies Act differs from, or contradicts with, any judicial pronouncements or clarifications issued by the Government in the future, we may face regulatory actions or be required to undertake remedial steps. In addition, some of the provisions of the Companies Act overlap with other existing laws and regulations (such as corporate governance provisions and insider trading regulations issued by SEBI). Recently, SEBI issued revised corporate governance guidelines which became effective on October 1, 2014. Pursuant to the revised guidelines, we are required to, among other things, ensure that there is at least one woman director on our board of directors at all times, establish a vigilance mechanism for directors and employees and reconstitute certain committees in accordance with the revised guidelines. We may face difficulties in complying with any such overlapping requirements. Furthermore, we cannot currently determine the impact of certain provisions of the Companies Act and the revised SEBI corporate governance norms. Any increase in our compliance requirements or in our compliance costs may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Compliance with the SEC’s rules for disclosures on “conflict minerals” may be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our reputation. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted rules that apply to companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, including certain products manufactured for them by third parties. The rules require companies to conduct due diligence as to whether or not such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and further require companies to file certain information with the SEC about the use of these minerals. We expect to incur additional costs to comply with these due diligence and disclosure requirements. In addition, depending on our findings or our inability to make reliable findings about the source of any possible conflict minerals that may be used in any products manufactured for us by third parties, our reputation could be harmed. Risks associated with Investments in an Indian Company Political changes in the Government of India could delay and/or affect the further liberalization of the Indian economy and materially and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Our business could be significantly influenced by economic policies adopted by the Government of India. Since 1991, successive governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization and financial sector reforms. The Government of India has at various times announced its general intention to continue India’s current economic and financial liberalization and deregulation policies. However, protests against such policies, which have occurred in the past, could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in India could change as well. While we expect any new government to continue the liberalization of India’s economic and financial sectors and deregulation policies, there can be no assurance that such policies will be continued. The Government of India has traditionally exercised and continues to exercise influence over many aspects of the economy. Our business and the market price and liquidity of our ADSs and Shares may be affected by interest rates, changes in policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. A change in the Government of India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally, and specifically our business and operations, as a substantial portion of our assets are located in India. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our business and our profitability. India has from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and hostilities, including terrorist attacks and riots and armed conflict with neighboring countries. Events of this nature in the future could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on our business as well as the market for securities of Indian companies, including our Shares and ADSs. In addition, any deterioration in international relations, especially between India and its neighboring countries, may result in investor concern regarding regional stability, which could adversely affect the price of our Shares or ADSs. Furthermore, India has witnessed local civil disturbances in recent years, and it is possible that future civil unrest as well as other adverse social, economic or political events in India could have an adverse impact on our business. Such incidents could also create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the market price of our Shares and ADSs. We may be materially and adversely affected by Reserve Bank of India policies and actions. In June 2015, after the Reserve Bank of India, or RBI, announced an interest rate reduction coupled with a cautious statement on inflation, the S&P Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped over six hundred (600) points and which may have impacted the price of our Shares and ADSs. We can make no assurances about future market reactions to RBI announcements and their impact on the price of our Shares and ADSs. Furthermore, our business could be significantly impacted were the RBI to make major alterations to monetary or financial policy. Certain changes, such as the raising of interest rates, could negatively affect our sales and consequently our revenue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Rights of shareholders under Indian law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Our Articles of Association, which include regulations applicable to our board of directors, and Indian law govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to these matters and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may differ from those that would apply to a company incorporated in another jurisdiction. Shareholders’ rights under Indian law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries or jurisdictions, including the United States. You may also have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder of our company than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. The market value of your investment may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Indian securities market. Stock exchanges in India, including the Bombay Stock Exchange, or the BSE, have, in the past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of their listed securities. Such fluctuations, if they continue or recur, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our Shares and ADSs. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. Volatility in other stock exchanges, including, but not limited to, those in China, may affect the prices of securities in India, including our Shares, which may in turn affect the price of our ADSs. In addition, the governing bodies of the stock exchanges in India have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Furthermore, from time to time disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. There may be a differing level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants, than in the United States. SEBI received statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. Subsequently, SEBI has prescribed regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, insider dealing and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States. Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us or our management. We are a public limited company incorporated in India. The majority of our directors and executive officers are residents of India and substantially all of the assets of those persons and a substantial portion of our assets are located in India. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or us. In addition, you may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in courts of the United States against those persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, including judgments predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Moreover, it is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action were brought in India or that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages as excessive or inconsistent with public policy. Section 44A of the Indian Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended, or the Civil Code, provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a superior court (within the meaning of the section) in any country or territory outside of India which the Government of India has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, such foreign judgment may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by an appropriate court in India. However, the enforceability of such judgments is subject to the exceptions set forth in Section 13 of the Civil Code. Section 44A of the Civil Code is applicable only to monetary decrees not being in the nature of amounts payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a similar nature or in respect of fines or other penalties and does not include arbitration awards. If a judgment of a foreign court is not enforceable under Section 44A of the Civil Code as described above, it may be enforced in India only by a suit filed upon the judgment, subject to Section 13 of the Civil Code and not by proceedings in execution. Accordingly, as the United States has not been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 44A, a judgment rendered by a court in the United States may not be enforced in India except by way of a suit filed upon the judgment. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. Generally, there are considerable delays in the disposition of suits by Indian courts. 16 Table of Contents A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain prior approval from the RBI, under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, or FEMA to repatriate any amount recovered pursuant to such enforcement. Any judgment in a foreign currency would be converted into Indian rupees on the date of judgment and not on the date of payment. We will be required to prepare financial statements under Ind-AS (which is India’s convergence to IFRS). The transition to Ind-AS in India is very recent and there is no clarity on the impact of such transition on us. We currently prepare annual and interim financial statements under Indian GAAP and annual financial statements under IFRS. We will be required to prepare annual and interim financial statements under Indian Accounting Standard 101 “First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting Standards”, or Ind-AS. On January 2, 2015, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, the MCA, announced the revised roadmap for the implementation of Ind-AS, and on February 16, 2015, released the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (to be published in the Gazette of India) which will come into effect from April 1, 2016. There is not yet a significant body of established practice on which to draw informing judgments regarding the implementation and application of Ind-AS. In addition, Ind-AS differs in certain respects from IFRS and therefore financial statements prepared under Ind-AS may be substantially different from financial statements prepared under IFRS. There can be no assurance that our financial condition, results of operation, cash flow or changes in shareholders’ equity will not be presented differently under Ind-AS than under Indian GAAP or IFRS. When we adopt Ind-AS reporting, we may encounter difficulties in the ongoing process of implementing and enhancing our management information systems. There can be no assurance that the adoption of Ind-AS will not materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Risks associated with our Shares and ADSs Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our ADSs and Shares, independent of our operating results. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed materially in the last two decades and may materially fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will affect, among others things, the U.S. dollar equivalents of the price of our Shares in Indian rupees as quoted on stock exchanges in India and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Indian rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Indian rupee of a sale of Shares in India. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Although ADS holders have a right to receive any dividends declared in respect of the Shares underlying the ADSs, they cannot exercise voting or other direct rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares underlying the ADSs. Citibank, N.A. as depositary, or the depositary, is the registered shareholder of the deposited Shares underlying our ADSs, and only the depositary may exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will notify ADS holders of upcoming votes and arrange to deliver our voting materials to ADS holders only if requested by us. The depositary will try, in so far as practicable, subject to Indian laws and the provisions of our Articles of Association, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited securities as instructed by the ADS holders. If the depositary receives voting instructions in time from an ADS holder which fails to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote the Shares underlying such ADS holder’s ADSs, such ADS holder will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to vote in favor of the items set forth in such voting instructions. If the depositary has not received timely instructions from an ADS holder, such ADS holder shall be deemed to have instructed the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us, subject to the conditions set forth in the deposit agreement. If requested by us, the depositary is required to represent all Shares underlying ADSs, regardless whether timely instructions have been received from such ADS holders, for the sole purpose of establishing a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to examine our accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights. Registered holders of our Shares withdrawn from the depositary arrangements will be entitled to vote and exercise other direct shareholder rights in accordance with Indian law. However, a holder may not know about a meeting sufficiently in advance to withdraw the underlying Shares in time. Furthermore, an ADS holder may not receive voting materials, if we do not instruct the depositary to distribute such materials, or may not receive such voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. For further details on the terms and conditions of our ADSs and the rights and obligations of our ADS holders, please see the amended and restated deposit agreement dated as of September 27, 2004 among us, Citibank, N.A., as depositary, and all holders and beneficial owners of ADSs issued thereunder, as amended and supplemented by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 16, 2009, hereinafter referred to as the deposit agreement, which is incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 20-F. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, pursuant to Indian regulations, we are required to offer our shareholders preemptive rights to subscribe for a proportionate number of Shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issue of new Shares. These rights may be waived by a resolution passed by at least 75% of our shareholders present and voting at a general meeting. ADS holders may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for subscribing to these new Shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective or an exemption from the registration requirements is available to us. Our decision to file a registration statement would be based on the costs, timing, potential liabilities and the perceived benefits associated with any such registration statement and we do not commit that we would file such a registration statement. If any issue of securities is made to our shareholders in the future, such securities may also be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities in the Indian securities market for the benefit of the holders of ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of such rights or securities. To the extent that ADS holders are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportionate ownership interest in our company would be reduced. The Government of India’s regulation of foreign ownership could materially reduce the price of the ADSs. Foreign ownership of Indian securities is regulated and is partially restricted. In addition, there are restrictions on the deposit of Shares into our ADS facilities. ADSs issued by companies in certain emerging markets, including India, may trade at a discount to the market price of the underlying Shares, in part because of the restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying Shares and in part because ADSs are sometimes perceived to offer less liquidity than underlying Shares that can be traded freely in local markets by both local and international investors. See Item 10.D “—Exchange Controls”. There are restrictions on daily movements in the price of the Shares, which may constrain a shareholder’s ability to sell, or the price at which a shareholder can sell, Shares at a particular point in time. The Shares are subject to a daily circuit breaker imposed by stock exchanges in India on publicly-listed companies, including us, which does not allow transactions causing volatility in the price of the Shares above a certain threshold. This circuit breaker operates independently from the index-based market-wide circuit breakers generally imposed by SEBI on Indian stock exchanges. The percentage limit on our circuit breaker is set by the stock exchanges in India based on the historical volatility in the price and trading volume of our Shares. The stock exchanges in India are not required to inform us of the percentage limit of the circuit breaker from time to time, and may change it without our knowledge. This circuit breaker effectively acts to limit the upward and downward movements in the price of our Shares. As a result of this circuit breaker, we cannot make any assurance regarding the ability of our shareholders to sell their Shares or the price at which such shareholders may be able to sell their Shares. You may be subject to Indian taxes arising out of capital gains on the sale of the Shares. Capital gains arising from the sale of Shares are generally taxable in India. Any gain realized on the sale of the Shares on an Indian stock exchange held for more than 12 months will not be subject to capital gains tax in India if the securities transaction tax has been paid on the transaction. The securities transaction tax will be levied on and collected by the Indian stock exchange on which the Shares are sold. Any gain realized on the sale of Shares held for more than 12 months on which no securities transaction tax has been paid, will be subject to capital gains tax in India. Furthermore, any gain realized on the sale of the Shares held for a period of 12 months or less will be subject to capital gains tax in India. See Item 10.E “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Capital Gains and Losses—Indian Taxation—Capital Gains” of this annual report on Form 20-F for further information on the application of capital gains tax in India to our shareholders and ADS holders. 