Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this offering memorandum, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2005, our loan portfolio consisted of $45.7 million, or 23.7%, of commercial real estate loans and $70.7 million, or 35.7%, of commercial business loans. We have increased our emphasis on these types of loans since we converted to a national bank charter in July 2003. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The unseasoned nature of a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging its collectibility, which may lead to additional loan charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial real estate as well as business assets, has increased from $21.9 million, or 13.9% of total loans, at September 30, 2001 to $116.3 million, or 60.4% of total loans, at December 31, 2005. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. These loans have also not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any 23 Table of Contents errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis that those incurred with our residential mortgage loan portfolio. Our market area limits our growth potential. Some of our offices are located in areas that have experienced population and economic decline. Thus, our ability to originate loans and grow deposits in these areas may be limited. To counter this, we have attempted to expand our operations into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion. This was the impetus for the opening of our banking center in Rock Hill in York County. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter new markets with similar growth potential. If we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business and our earnings will be restricted. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2005, we held 9.1% of the deposits in Fairfield, Laurens, Union and York counties, South Carolina, which was the third largest market share of deposits out of the 16 financial institutions that held deposits in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate fourteen times, from 1.00% to 4.50%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. Although this “flattening” of the market yield curve has not had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and, in particular, our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available-for-sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. If the value of real estate in northwestern South Carolina were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in the northwestern South Carolina, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in northwestern South Carolina, our success significantly depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in northwestern South Carolina. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of South Carolina could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on Nasdaq National Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. 25 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Provident Community Bank, N.A. is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, its chartering authority and federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Union Financial Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Provident Community Bank, N.A. The regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Union Financial Bancshares common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Delaware could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Delaware laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 