Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses increased during the past fiscal year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $9.1 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.3 million. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. The deterioration in the general economy and our market area has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of loan delinquencies and non-performing assets. General economic conditions, decreased home prices, slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market have caused the increase in delinquencies. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing loans totaled $18.8 million, representing 9.1% of total loans. Total loans that we have classified as impaired, substandard or special mention including our non-performing loans totaled $44.7 million, representing 21.7% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the collateral is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience loan losses, which could have a material effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. 23 At December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 3.6%. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance with the provisions of a Consent Order recently entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We entered into a stipulation and consent to the issuance of a consent order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The Order is a formal enforcement action pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to address specific areas through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to enhance the safety and soundness of the Bank. These affirmative actions include management assessment, implementation of plans to address capital, our interest in problem assets, asset concentration, allowance for loan losses, loan portfolio management, strategic planning and liquidity and funds management. In addition, the Bank is required to maintain specified capital levels, notify the Comptroller of director and management changes and obtain prior approval of dividend payments. The Order specifies certain timeframes for meeting these requirements, and we must furnish periodic progress reports to the Comptroller regarding its compliance. While we intend to take such actions as may be necessary to enable the Bank to comply with the requirements of the Order, there can be no assurance that the Bank will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Order, or to do so within the timeframes required, that compliance with the Order will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, or that compliance with the Order will enable us to resume profitable operations, or that efforts to comply with the Order will not have adverse effects on our financial condition and operations. Failure to comply with the Order could result in further regulatory enforcement actions and further restrictions on our operations. The recent economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including the Bank. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could further impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in northwestern South Carolina. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. Continuation of the economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. 24 We may have experienced losses in each of the last three years and may not return to profitability. We have experienced losses for each of the past three fiscal years. These losses primarily resulted from our high level of non-performing assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. We may continue to suffer further losses as a result of these factors. As a result of these factors and other conditions, such as weakness in our local economy, we may not be able to be able to return to profitability or do so in the near future. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio and profitability. At December 31, 2010, the cost basis of our available for sale investment portfolio was $152.7 million, including $448,000 of collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”) and $3.3 million of collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) secured by trust preferred securities issued by various financial institutions. These CMOs are secured by first lien residential jumbo mortgage loans geographically dispersed across the United States with a significant amount of the CMOs secured by properties located in California. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of these securities was $148.5 million. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, declines in the fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities below their cost that are deemed to be other than temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses to the extent the impairment is related to credit losses. The amount of the impairment related to other non-credit related factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a $1.2 million OTTI charge on CDOs of which the entire amount was identified as credit related. These OTTI charges were determined by, among other things, a constant default rate, prepayments and loss severity of the security. We closely monitor these and our other investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities and the determination of any OTTI with respect to such securities are highly complex and involve a comprehensive process, including quantitative modeling and significant judgment. The valuation of our investment securities will also continue to be influenced by external markets and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, and default rates of specific CMOs and CDOs, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our CMO and CDO securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of these or other investment securities have additional OTTI, our future earnings and shareholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by the Consent Order to maintain Tier 1 capital at least equal to 8% of adjusted total assets and total capital of at least 12% of risk-weighted assets. To satisfy our capital requirements, we may need to raise additional capital. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions or have to shrink our balance sheet. 25 Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2010, 50.1% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans and 23.5% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. We have increased our emphasis on these types of loans since we converted to a national bank charter in July 2003. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The unseasoned nature of a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging its collectability, which may lead to additional loan charge-offs and provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial real estate as well as business assets, has increased from $116.3 million, or 58.9% of total loans, at December 31, 2005 to $146.4 million, or 70.9% of total loans, at December 31, 2010. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. These loans have also not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis that those incurred with our residential mortgage loan portfolio. Our market area limits our growth potential. Some of our offices are located in areas that have experienced population and economic decline. Thus, our ability to originate loans and grow deposits in these areas may be limited. To counter this, we have attempted to expand our operations into communities that are experiencing population growth and economic expansion. This was the impetus for the opening of our banking centers in Rock Hill in York County and Simpsonville in Greenville County and the relocation of our main office to Rock Hill. However, we may not be able to successfully enter new markets with similar growth potential. If we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business and our earnings will be restricted. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions, such as the Bank, will be reduced as well, and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. 26 Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $211,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.0 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2010 provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses to certain officers and highly compensated employees. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The exercise of the warrant by Treasury will dilute existing shareholders’ ownership interest and may make it more difficult for us to take certain actions that may be in the best interests of shareholders. In addition to the issuance of preferred shares, we also granted the Treasury a warrant to purchase 179,110 shares of common at a price of $7.77 per share. If the Treasury exercises the entire warrant, it would result in a significant dilution to the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and dilute the earnings per share value of our common stock. Further, if the Treasury exercises the entire warrant, it will become the largest shareholder of the Company. The Treasury has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the warrant. However, Treasury’s abstention from voting may make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding, such as a business combination involving the Company. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2010 placed more stringent limits on executive compensation for participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and established a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. Further changes in the terms of the transaction may occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operations, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 27 Our inability to raise capital at attractive rates may restrict our ability to redeem the preferred stock we issued, which may lead to a greater cost of that investment. The terms of the preferred stock issued to the Treasury provide that the shares pay a dividend at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years after which time the rate will increase to 9% per year. It is our current goal to repay the Treasury before the date of the increase in the dividend rate on the preferred stock. However, our ability to repay the Treasury will depend on our ability to raise capital, which will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control. We can give no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital or that such capital will be available on terms more attractive to us than the Treasury’s investment. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as of June 30, 2010, we held 2.4% of the deposits in Fairfield, Greenville, Laurens, Union and York Counties, in South Carolina, which was the 11th largest market share of deposits out of the 38 financial institutions that held deposits in these counties. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. The trading history of our common stock is characterized by low trading volume. Our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. Although our common stock trades on Nasdaq Capital Market, it has not been regularly traded. We cannot predict whether a more active trading market in our common stock will occur or how liquid that market might become. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time, which presence is dependent upon the individual decisions of investors, over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in interest rates; · changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; · press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; 28 · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting our competitors or us. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, its chartering authority and federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Provident Community Bancshares is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Provident Community Bancshares common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate law of the State of Delaware could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Delaware laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. 29 We currently are unable to pay dividends on our common stock. In the third quarter of 2010, we exercised our right to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures related to trust preferred securities. We also elected to defer payment of the quarterly cash dividend on our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A issued to the U.S. Treasury Department in connection with the Corporation’s participation in the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. Distributions on the trust preferred securities and dividends on the preferred stock are cumulative. We may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock until we have paid all missed interest and dividend payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures and preferred stock. In addition, cash dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for interest and dividend payments on our junior subordinated debentures and preferred stock and for payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. Under the Consent Order issued by the OCC, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the OCC. We anticipate that the OCC will not approve any capital distributions by the Bank until the Bank demonstrates consistent profitability and, in such event, only if the Bank remains well capitalized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 