ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the Company. The Company’s Ability To Grow, Including Its Plans To Open A New Pizzeria Regina Restaurant In Medford, Massachusetts, May Be Dependent On Additional Funding For the year ended April 30, 2006, the Company has income before dividends to preferred shareholders of approximately $298,000. As of that date, the Company had a working capital deficiency of approximately $1,175,000 and stockholders’ equity of $55,000. The long-term financial stability of the Company and compliance with the bank covenants will be substantially dependent upon achieving sustained profitable operations. If the Company fails to comply with bank covenants, the bank debt could be due on demand. The Company’s growth, including its plans to open a new Pizzeria Regina restaurant in Medford, Massachusetts, will be dependent upon obtaining adequate additional financing. There can be no assurance that any future additional financing will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the success or lack of success of the Company’s restaurants opened within recent years may have a critical effect on the Company’s ability to raise funds through the sale of stock or otherwise. The Company May Be Unable to Expand As Planned The Company intends to open additional restaurants in an orderly manner as conditions permit, including its plans to open a new Pizzeria Regina restaurant in Medford, Massachusetts. The Company’s ability to open additional Company restaurants will depend upon a number of factors, such as identifying satisfactory sites, negotiating satisfactory leases, securing required governmental permits and approvals, obtaining of any required financing at acceptable terms, providing adequate supervision of construction, and recruiting and training management personnel, some of which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to open any other future restaurants within budget or on a timely basis, if at all, or that any of the new restaurants will operate profitably. If the Company is unable to expand, it may reduce the Company’s ability to increase profitability. The Restaurant Business Is Risky The Company’s future performance will be subject to a number of factors that affect the restaurant industry generally, including: (i) the highly competitive nature of the industry, (ii) general and local economic conditions, (iii) changes in tastes and eating and drinking habits, (iv) changes in food costs due to shortages, inflation or other causes, (v) population and traffic patterns, (vi) demographic trends, (vii) general employment, and wage and benefit levels in the restaurant industry, which may be affected by changes in federal and local minimum wage requirements or by federally or locally mandated health insurance, (viii) the number of people willing to work at or near the minimum wage and (ix) weather conditions. (See ‘‘Competition.’’) We Are Dependent on Key Executive Officers The future success of the Company will depend in large part on the continued services of its President, George R. Chapdelaine, as well as on the Company’s ability to attract and retain other qualified senior management personnel. The Company carries $2,000,000 of key man life insurance on the life of Mr. Chapdelaine. Insiders Control the Company The Company’s executive officers, directors and their affiliates and members of their immediate families control the vote of approximately 67.2% of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock. As 9 Table of Contents a result, they have the practical ability to implement or block changes in the Company’s management and direction which may or may not be in the best interest of stockholders generally. The Merger May Not Be Completed On March 17, 2006 the Company entered into and Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Company, Dolphin Direct Equity Partners, LP and Braidol Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Dolphin by which Braidol will merge with and into the Company with the Company surviving the Merger. The consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of stockholders of the Company. Should the merger be completed, stockholder’s common and preferred stock would be redeemed and stockholders would no longer participate in any future earnings, should there be any future earnings. In addition, the consummation of the Merger is subject to the condition that certain transaction costs incurred by the Company not exceed $625,000. The Company has determined that it is unlikely that the Company will satisfy this condition and has sought a waiver from Dolphin. As of June 29, 2006, the Company has not received that waiver. Under certain circumstances, if the Merger is not completed, the Company is required to pay a termination fee of up to $325,000, less any expenses it has paid for the benefit of Dolphin and its affiliates. In addition, the Company estimates that it will be required to incur direct transaction costs of $625,000, which include fees related to financial advisors, attorneys, accountants and financial printers. The Company has capitalized certain of these costs as deferred merger costs at April 30, 2006. If the Merger is not closed, the Company’s financial results, including earnings per share, could suffer, and the Company’s market price could decline. The Company’s Restaurants Are Concentrated in Massachusetts A total of eleven of the Company’s sixteen existing restaurants are located in eastern Massachusetts. As a result, the Company’s results of operations may be materially affected by changes in the Massachusetts economy. Our Stock Is Relatively Illiquid and the Price Is Volatile Compared to many other publicly traded companies, the Company is relatively small and has a relatively low average daily trading volume. Quarterly operating results of the Company or other restaurant companies, changes in general conditions in the economy, the restaurant industry, or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the Company, its competitors or the financial markets could cause the market price of the Company’s Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, the low trading volume may make it difficult for a stockholder to buy or sell a significant amount of stock without affecting the market price. The Company’s securities are principally traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or its successor. (See ‘‘Item 5. Market for Registrant Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.’’) ITEM 