Risk Factors – Our failure to maintain rights to intellectual property used in our business could adversely affect the development, functionality, and commercial value of our products”, in Item 1A of this report. Available Information A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on the Internet at our web site, www.adtran.com, as soon as reasonably practicable (generally, within one day) after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish these reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The reference to our web site address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the web site, which information should not be considered part of this document. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we have filed electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN. ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC and other communications with our stockholders. Generally, the words, “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will,” “may,” “could” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause these statements to be wrong. Some of these uncertainties and other factors are listed below. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important factors, we caution investors that other factors may prove to be important in the future in affecting our operating results. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of these factors, nor can we assess the impact each factor or combination of factors may have on our business. 11 Table of Contents You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on those forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date the statements were made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. The following are some of the risks that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements: Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results have been and will continue to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to: • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to significant network expansion projects undertaken by telecommunications service providers; • Continued growth of communications network traffic and the adoption of communication services and applications by enterprise and consumer end users; • Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers’ spending plans and associated revenue; • Reductions in demand for our legacy products as new technologies gain acceptance; • Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; • Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; • The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers; • Our dependence on sales of our products by channel partners, the timing of their replenishment orders, the potential for conflicts and competition involving our channel partners and large end use customers and the potential for consolidation among our channel partners; • Variations in sales channels, product cost or mix of products and services sold; • Delays in receiving product acceptance from certain customers as defined under contract, for shipments near the end of a reporting period; • Our ability to maintain high levels of product support and professional services; • Manufacturing and customer order lead times; • Fluctuations in our gross margin, and the factors that contribute to this as described below; • Our ability to achieve cost reductions; • The ability of our customers, channel partners, and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; • Our ability to execute on our strategy and operating plans; • Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and marketing activities; • The effects of climate change and other natural events; and • The effects of political or economic conditions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or other unrest in certain international markets. 12 Table of Contents As a result, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the above mentioned factors, or other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. Our revenue for a particular period can be difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results. As a result of the many factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict and will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our typical pattern of customer orders requests product delivery within a short period following receipt of an order. Consequently, we do not typically carry a significant order backlog, and are dependent upon obtaining orders and completing delivery in accordance with shipping terms that are predominantly within each quarter to achieve our targeted revenues. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in previous quarters or may decline. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be affected if the variable sales patterns seen in prior quarters recur in future quarters. We have experienced periods of time during which manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to variable shipping patterns. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in quarters in which we and our subcontractors are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to remediate the conditions within the same quarter. In the past, long manufacturing lead times have caused our customers to place the same order multiple times. This multiple ordering, along with other factors, may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. The failure to complete the acquisition of the Nokia Siemens Networks fixed line Broadband Access business or the inability to complete the resulting integration as soon as we expect or the failure to realize benefits from this acquisition as significant as we expect may affect our future results of operations and financial condition, and could affect our stock price. On December 12, 2011, ADTRAN announced the planned acquisition of the Nokia Siemens Networks fixed line Broadband Access business (BBA). The successful integration of BBA will require integrating supply chains and personnel into our existing infrastructure. If there are delays in our efforts to integrate the BBA business, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Unanticipated expenses could occur in the integration of the BBA business, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The future revenues of the BBA business may be materially different from those shown in the 8-K, press release and analysts’ call announcing the planned acquisition transaction, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may also experience negative reactions from present BBA customers, employees and dealers. A combination of these factors may extend the time required for us to attain the anticipated benefits. If the acquisition transaction is not completed, we will not realize any anticipated benefits from increased international revenues. In addition, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, which may cause a decrease in the market price of our stock. Any or all of these events may have an adverse effect on our business. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. Economic conditions may contribute to a slowdown in telecommunications industry spending, including specific market segments in which we operate. The potential reoccurrence of these trends and their duration and depth are difficult to predict. Capital spending for network infrastructure projects of our largest customers could be delayed or cancelled in response to reduced consumer spending, tight capital markets or declining liquidity trends. Sustained trends of this nature could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and distributors may make it difficult to collect accounts receivable and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, frequently with payment terms of 30 to 45 days in the United States and typically longer in many geographic markets outside the United States. As our business in international regions expands, ADTRAN’s total accounts receivable balance will likely increase. Our days sales outstanding could also increase as a result of greater mix of international sales. Additionally, international laws may not provide the same degree of protection against defaults on accounts receivable as provided under United States laws governing domestic transactions; therefore, as our international business grows, we may be subject to higher bad debt expense compared to historical trends. Overall, we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. We may be exposed to similar credit risks relating to collections from distributors of our products, and we apply similar processes to monitor and reserve for any exposures. Turmoil in the financial markets could impact certain of our customers’ ability to maintain adequate credit facilities with financial institutions, thereby potentially impacting their ability to pay their debts. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to collect accounts receivable balances, there are no assurances we can avoid accounts receivable write downs or write off of doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and could potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We expect gross margin to vary over time, and our level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. Our level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including the mix of configurations and professional services revenue within each product group; • Introduction of new products by competitors, including products with price-performance advantages; • Our ability to reduce product cost; • Increases in material or labor cost; • Expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements; • Excess inventory and inventory holding charges; • Obsolescence charges; • Changes in shipment volume; • Loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand; • Lower than expected benefits from value engineering; • Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially China; • Changes in distribution channels; • Increased warranty cost; • Liquidated damages costs relating to customer contractual terms; and • Our ability to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations relating to pricing to our international customers. We must continue to update and improve our products and develop new products in order to compete and to keep pace with improvements in telecommunications technology. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and continuing improvements in the telecommunications service offerings of common service providers. If technologies or standards applicable to our products, or common service provider offerings based on our products, become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our existing products or products under development may become obsolete or unmarketable. Moreover, the introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in common service provider offerings could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. For instance, we offer a large number of products that apply primarily to the delivery of high-speed digital communications over the local loop utilizing copper wire. We compete favorably with our competitors by developing a high-performance line of these products. We market products that apply to fiber optic transport in the local loop. We expect, however, that use of coaxial cable and mobile wireless access in place of local loop access will increase. Also, non-traditional providers, such as cable television companies, are increasing their presence in the local loop. To meet the requirements of these new delivery systems and to maintain our market position, we may have to develop new products or modify existing products. Our sales and profitability in the past have, to a significant extent, resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and common service provider offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. Our continued ability to adapt will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to respond effectively to changes in technology, industry standards, common service provider offerings or new product announcements by our competitors. We also cannot assure that we will be able to successfully develop and market new products or product enhancements, or that these products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance. Should the rate of decline in sales of certain traditional TDM based products exceed the rate of market acceptance and growth in sales of our newer IP-based products, our revenues may be adversely affected. Any failure by us to continue to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to changes in technology, industry standards, common service provider offerings, or new product announcements by our competitors, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to competitively market our products and on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our products may not continue to comply with the regulations governing their sale, which may harm our business. As discussed above under “Business – Government Regulation”, in the United States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories. Products sold internationally may be required to comply with regulations or standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries, as well as those of certain international bodies. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries in which we currently sell, there can be no assurance that we will be able to design our products to comply with evolving standards and regulations in the future. Further, the cost of complying with the evolving standards and regulations, or the failure to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification such that we may not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products may require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with any of these applicable requirements could result in regulatory penalties, legal claims or disruption of production. In addition, our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or liabilities. Existing and future environmental regulations may restrict our use of certain materials to manufacture, assemble and test products. Any of these consequences could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations may be delayed or cancelled, which could harm our business. Our products must interface with existing networks, each of which may have different specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards and incorporate products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products may be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate with the existing software and hardware. Such issues may affect our ability to obtain product acceptance from other customers. Implementation of product corrections involving interoperability issues could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. The lengthy approval process required by major and other service providers for new products could result in fluctuations in our revenue. In the industry in which we compete, a supplier must first obtain product approval from a major or other service provider to sell its products to them. This process can last from six to 18 months, or longer, depending on the technology, the service provider, and the demand for the product from the service provider’s subscribers. Consequently, we are involved in a constant process of submitting for approval succeeding generations of products, as well as products that deploy new technology or respond to new technology demands from a major or other service provider. We have been successful in the past in obtaining these approvals. However, we cannot be certain that we will obtain these approvals in the future or that sales of these products will continue to occur. Any attempt by a major or other service provider to seek out additional or alternative suppliers, or to undertake, as permitted under applicable regulations, the production of these products internally, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the delay in sales until the completion of the approval process, the length of which is difficult to predict, could result in fluctuations of revenue and uneven operating results from quarter to quarter or year to year. 15 Table of Contents We engage in research and development activities to improve the application of developed technologies, and as a consequence may miss certain market opportunities enjoyed by larger companies with substantially greater research and development efforts who may focus on more leading edge development. A portion of our research and development activities are focused on the refinement and redefinition of access technologies that are currently accepted and commonly practiced, which may include emerging technologies not yet widely distributed across all networks. These research and development efforts result in improved applications of technologies for which demand already exists or is latent. We rarely engage in research projects that represent a vast departure from the current business practices of our key customers. This includes pioneering new services and participating in leading edge field trials or demonstration projects for new technologies. While we believe our strategy provides a higher likelihood of producing nearer term revenue streams, this strategy could reduce our ability to influence industry standards and share in the establishment of intellectual property rights associated with new technologies, and could result in lost revenue opportunities should a new technology achieve rapid and widespread market acceptance. We depend heavily on sales to certain customers; the loss of any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and net income. Historically, a large percentage of our sales have been made to major service providers and larger independent telecommunications companies. In 2011, these customers continued to comprise over half of our revenue. As long as the major and larger independent telecommunications companies represent such a substantial percentage of our total sales, our future success will significantly depend upon certain factors which are not within our control, including: • the timing and size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers; • the product requirements of these customers; • the financial and operational success of these customers; • the impact of legislative and regulatory changes on these customers; • the success of these customers’ services deployed using our products; and • the impact of work stoppages at these customers. Sales to our large customers have, in the past, fluctuated and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. The loss of, or a significant reduction or delay in, sales to any such customer or the occurrence of sales fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, any attempt by a major or other service provider to seek out additional or alternative suppliers or to undertake, as permitted under applicable regulations, the production of these products internally, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This could lead to variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that a loss of a major customer could have a material impact on our results that we would not have anticipated in a marketplace composed of more numerous participants. Our strategy of outsourcing a portion of our manufacturing requirements to subcontractors located in Asia or other international regions may result in us not meeting our cost, quality or performance standards. We are heavily dependent on two subcontractors for the assembly and testing of certain printed circuit board assemblies, subassemblies, chassis, enclosures and equipment shelves, and the purchase of raw materials used in such assemblies. This reliance involves several risks, including the unavailability of, or interruptions in, access to certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, transportation, manufacturing yields and costs. We may not be able to provide product volumes to our subcontractors that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of excess inventory. Changes in international tariff structures could adversely impact our product costs. In addition, a significant component of maintaining cost competitiveness is the ability of our subcontractors to adjust their own costs to compensate for possible adverse exchange rate movements. To the extent that the subcontractors are unable to do so, and we are unable to procure alternative product supplies, then our own competitiveness and results of operations could be adversely impaired. These risks may be exacerbated by economic or political uncertainties, terrorist actions, the effects of climate change, natural disasters or pandemics in the foreign countries in which our subcontractors are located. 16 Table of Contents To date, we believe that we have successfully managed the risks of our dependence on these subcontractors through a variety of efforts, which include seeking and developing alternative subcontractors while maintaining existing relationships; however, we cannot be assured that delays in product deliveries will not occur in the future because of shortages resulting from this limited number of subcontractors or from the financial or other difficulties of these parties. Our inability to develop alternative subcontractors if and as required in the future, or the need to undertake required retraining and other activities related to establishing and developing a new subcontractor relationship, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which, in turn, could have a negative effect on our customer relationships and operating results. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on customer relations and operating results. Certain raw materials and key components used in our products are currently available from only one source, and others are available from only a limited number of sources. The availability of these raw materials and supplies is subject to market forces beyond our control. From time to time, there may not be sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies in the marketplace to meet customer demand. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies that we do in the production of their products. Companies with more resources than our own may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater buying power. These factors can result in reduced supply, higher prices of raw materials, and delays in the receipt of certain of our key components, which in turn may generate increased costs, lower margins, and delays in product delivery, with a corresponding adverse effect on sales, customer relationships, and revenue. Furthermore, due to general economic conditions in the United States and globally, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties, which could result in increased delays, additional costs, or loss of a supplier. We attempt to manage these risks through developing alternative sources, by staging inventories at strategic locations, through engineering efforts designed to obviate the necessity of certain components, and by building long-term relationships and close contact with each of our suppliers; however, we cannot assure you that delays in or failures of deliveries of key components, either to us or to our contract manufacturers, and consequent delays in product deliveries, will not occur in the future. The Security and Exchange Commission has proposed disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of metals used in the manufacture of a limited number of raw material parts contained in our products. This may reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to conclusively verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We compete in markets that have become increasingly competitive, which may result in reduced gross profit margins and market share. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Additional manufacturers have entered the markets in recent years to offer products in competition with us. Additionally, certain companies have, in recent years, developed the ability to deliver competing products using coaxial cable and cellular transmission, especially in high-density metropolitan areas. Competition would further increase if new companies enter the market or existing competitors expand their product lines. Some of these potential competitors may have greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and personnel resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more rapidly or effectively to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, withstand significant price decreases, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our present and future competitors may be able to enter our existing or future markets with products or technologies comparable or superior to those that we offer. An increase in competition could cause us to reduce prices, decrease our market share, require increased spending by us on product development and sales and marketing, or cause delays or cancellations in customer orders, any one of which could reduce our gross profit margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, shipment volumes, field service obligations and other rework costs incurred in correcting product failures. If our estimates change, the liability for warranty obligations may be increased or decreased, impacting future cost of goods sold. Our products are highly complex, and we cannot assure you that our extensive product development, manufacturing and integration testing will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues. Quality or performance problems for products covered under warranty could adversely impact our reputation and negatively affect our operating results and financial position. The development and production of new products with high complexity often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. If significant warranty obligations arise due to reliability or quality issues arising from defects in software, faulty components, or manufacturing methods, our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by: • costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects; • high service and warranty expenses; • high inventory obsolescence expense; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • payment of liquidated damages for performance failures; and • a decline in sales to existing customers. Managing our inventory is complex and may include write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is complicated by a number of factors, including the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply, have been discontinued by the component manufacturer, that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing or that require long lead times. These issues may result in our purchasing and maintaining significant amounts of inventory, which if not used or expected to be used based on anticipated production requirements, may become excess or obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could also result in sales price reductions and/or inventory write-downs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The anticipated growth of our international operations could expose us to additional risks, increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are in the process of expanding into international markets, which represented 11.8% of our net sales for 2011, and as a result, we anticipate increased sales and operating costs in these markets. In addition, our planned acquisition of the Nokia Siemens Networks fixed line Broadband Access business will significantly increase our exposure to international markets. This international expansion may increase our operational risks and impact our results of operations, including: • Foreign currency exchange rate exposure; • Exposure to unfavorable commercial terms in certain countries; • The time and cost to staff and manage foreign operations; • The time and cost to ensure adequate business interruption controls, processes and facilities; • The time and cost to manage and evolve financial reporting systems, maintain effective financial disclosure controls and procedures, and comply with corporate governance requirements in multiple jurisdictions; • The cost to collect accounts receivable and extension of collection periods; • The cost and potential disruption of facilities transitions required in some business acquisitions; • Less regulation of patents or other safeguards of intellectual property in certain countries; • Potential impact of adverse tax, customs regulations and transfer-pricing issues; • Exposure to global social, political and economic instability, and changes in economic conditions; • Potential exposure to liability or damage of reputation resulting from a higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices in some countries; • Potential trade protection measures, export compliance issues, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; • Potential exposure to natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism. The planned acquisition of Nokia Siemens Networks fixed line Broadband Access business and subsequent integration of this business may reduce the level of management’s attention to our existing operations and cause harm to our existing operations. The planned acquisition may result in subsequent impairment charges and other cost amortizations and we cannot assure that revenues from the planned acquisition will offset additional costs incurred. If we are unable to successfully address the potential risks associated with our overall international expansion, our operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Historically our sales to international customers and purchases from international suppliers have been transacted in United States currency; therefore, we have not entered into foreign currency forward contracts or other hedging instruments. As our international sales increase or as utilization of international suppliers expands, we may transact additional business in currencies other than United States currency. As a result, we will be subject to the possibility of greater effects of foreign currency exchange translation on our financial statements. Sales contract commitments and accounts receivable balances based on foreign currency expose us to potential risk of loss as the value of the United States dollar fluctuates over time. In addition, for those countries outside the United States where we have significant sales or significant purchases of supplies, devaluation in the local currency could make our products more expensive for customers to purchase or increase our operating costs, thereby adversely affecting our competitiveness. In the future, we may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other hedging instruments to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If used, the contracts and other hedging instruments will be intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements; therefore, we generally would not anticipate hedging all outstanding foreign currency risk. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our revenue from international sales, manufacturing costs, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to reduce the selling prices of succeeding generations of our products. Our strategy is to attempt to increase unit sales volumes and market share each year by introducing succeeding generations of products having lower selling prices and increased functionality as compared to prior generations of products. To maintain or increase our revenues and margins while continuing this strategy, we must continue, in some combination, to increase sales volumes of existing products, introduce and sell new products, or reduce our per unit costs at rates sufficient to compensate for the reduced revenue effect of continuing reductions in the average sales prices of our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues or margins by increasing unit sales volumes of our products, introducing and selling new products, or reducing unit costs of our products. Our failure to maintain rights to intellectual property used in our business could adversely affect the development, functionality, and commercial value of our products. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology by contract, trademark, copyright and patent registration, and internal security, these protections may not be adequate. Furthermore, our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. From time to time we receive and may continue to receive notices of claims alleging that we are infringing upon patents or other intellectual property. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees; divert our management’s time, attention and resources; delay our product shipments; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any claims or litigation over alleged infringements, or whether we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents, or other intellectual property, on commercially reasonable terms. If a claim of intellectual property infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be affected adversely. Software under license from third parties for use in certain of our products may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We integrate third-party software into certain of our products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Difficulties with third party technology licensors could result in termination of such licenses, which may result in increased costs or require us to purchase or develop a substitute technology. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third-party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs, which could harm our business. We may incur liabilities or become subject to litigation that would have a material effect on our business. In the ordinary course of business, we accept purchase orders, and enter into sales and other related contracts, for the marketing, sale, manufacture, distribution, or use of our products and services. We may incur liabilities relating to our performance under such agreements, or which result from damage claims arising from certain events as outlined within the particular contract. While we attempt to structure all agreements to include normal protection clauses, such agreements may not always contain, or be subject to, maximum loss clauses, and liabilities arising from them may result in significant adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes. In some cases, claimants seek damages, or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. Any such disputes may be resolved before trial, or if litigated, may be resolved in our favor; however, the cost of claims sustained in litigation, and costs associated with the litigation process, may not be covered by our insurance. Such costs, and the demands on management time during such an event, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation and deterioration in the competitive service provider market could result in a significant decrease in our revenue. We sell a moderate volume of products directly or indirectly to competitive service providers who compete with the established ILECs. The competitive service provider market is experiencing a process of consolidation. Many of our competitive service provider customers do not have a strong financial position and have limited ability to access the public financial markets for additional funding for growth and operations. If one or more of these competitive service providers fail, we could face a loss in revenue and an increased bad debt expense, due to their inability to pay outstanding invoices, as well as the corresponding decrease in customer base and future revenue. Furthermore, significant portions of our sales to competitive service providers are made through independent distributors. The failure of one or more competitive service providers could also negatively affect the financial position of a distributor to the point that the distributor could also experience business failure and/or default on payments to us. 20 Table of Contents We depend on distributors who maintain inventories of our products. If the distributors reduce their inventories of these products, our sales could be adversely affected. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of product are available to resellers and end users. If our distributors reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change. If we are unable to successfully develop relationships with system integrators, service providers, and enterprise value added resellers, our sales may be negatively affected. As part of our sales strategy, we are targeting system integrators (SIs), service providers (SPs), and enterprise value added resellers (VARs). In addition to specialized technical expertise, SIs, SPs and VARs typically offer sophisticated service capabilities that are frequently desired by enterprise customers. In order to expand our distribution channel to include resellers with such capabilities, we must be able to provide effective support to these resellers. If our sales, marketing or service capabilities are not sufficient to provide effective support to such SIs, SPs and VARs, our sales may be negatively affected, and current SI, SP and VAR partners may terminate their relationships with us, which would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial and securities markets successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. The primary objective of the large majority of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time achieving appropriate yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable securities are investment grade corporate and municipal fixed-rate bonds, municipal variable rate demand notes and municipal money market instruments denominated in United States dollars. Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio. We have significant investments in corporate and municipal fixed-rate bonds and municipal variable rate demand notes. Through December 31, 2011, we have not been required to impair any of these investments; however, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity in these investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Fixed rate interest securities may have their fair value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while variable rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may increase because of conditions in the financial markets and related credit liquidity issues. Consequently, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in fair value due to changes in interest rates. Our long-term investments include $31.3 million of marketable equity securities. At December 31, 2011, our total marketable equity securities, which included more than 400 individual securities, had net unrealized gains of $18.5 million, which includes an unrealized gain of $16.9 million related to a single security. If market conditions deteriorate in 2012, we may be required to record impairment charges related to our marketable equity securities. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, Part II of this report and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A, Part II of this report for more information about our investments. Changes in our effective tax rate or assessments arising from tax audits may have an adverse impact on our results. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally, in which we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our provision for income taxes and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex and sometimes uncertain tax laws and regulations. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and by changes in tax rules and regulations. For instance, the availability and timing of lapses in the United States research tax credit, tax implications of the Stock Compensation Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC), the accounting of uncertain tax positions and the amount of our estimated tax deduction for manufacturer’s domestic production activities under Internal Revenue Code Section 199 may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. We currently receive corporate income tax credits under a program administered by the Alabama State Industrial Development Authority in connection with revenue bonds issued to provide funding for expansion of our corporate facilities. We cannot be certain that the state of Alabama will continue to make these corporate income tax credits available; therefore, we may not realize the full benefit of these incentives, which would increase our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and various other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We are required to periodically evaluate the value of our long-lived assets, including the value of intangibles acquired and goodwill resulting from business acquisitions. Any future impairment charges required may adversely affect our operating results. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows. Forecasting future business trends is difficult and subject to modification. Should actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our business has grown significantly since its inception. Our success is dependent in large part on the continued employment of our executive officers, including Thomas R. Stanton, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key management personnel. The unplanned departure of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect our business. In addition, for ADTRAN to continue as a successful entity we must also be able to attract and retain key engineers and technicians whose expertise helps us maintain competitive advantages. We do not have employment contracts or non-compete agreements with any of our employees. We believe that our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to continue to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly-skilled employees who are in great demand. Stock option grants are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and to provide incentives for them to remain with us. The provisions of the Stock Compensation Topic of the FASB ASC require us to record significantly increased compensation costs as compared to prior accounting rules, which may cause us to restrict the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees. Changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock option incentive program, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Properly managing our continued growth, avoiding the problems often resulting from such growth and expansion, and continuing to operate in the manner which has proven successful to us to date will be critical to the future success of our business. Regulatory and potential physical impacts of climate change and other natural events may affect our customers and our production operations, resulting in adverse effects on our operating results. There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the atmosphere, affecting large-scale weather patterns and the global climate. It appears that some form of U.S. federal regulation related to greenhouse gas emissions may occur, and any such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. The impact of any future legislation, regulations or product specification requirements on our products and business operations is dependent on the design of the final mandate or standard, so we are unable to predict its significance at this time. The potential physical impacts of climate change and other natural events on our customers, suppliers, and on our operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These events may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, ocean levels, temperature levels, earthquakes and tsunamis. These potential physical effects may adversely affect our revenues, costs, production and delivery schedules, and cause harm to our results of operations and financial condition. While we believe our internal control over financial reporting is adequate, a failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as our business expands could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, and issue a report that states whether or not such internal control is effective. Compliance with these requirements requires significant cost and the commitment of time and staff resources. Expansion of our business, particularly in international geographies, will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. We cannot be certain that as this expansion occurs, our current design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal control is effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 22 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADTN. Since our initial public offering in August 1994, there has been, and may continue to be, significant volatility in the market for our common stock, based on a variety of factors, including factors listed in this section, some of which are beyond our control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 