Risk Factors.” Financing Practices Relating to Working Capital We assist healthcare facilities in financing their cash flow outlay requirements on the purchase of our systems by offering multi-year, non-cancelable sales contracts. For additional information regarding these financing activities, see Note 1 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.” Product Backlog Product backlog is the dollar amount of medication and supply dispensing systems for which we have purchase orders from our customers and which we believe we will install and bill within one year and gain customer acceptance. Due to industry practice that allows customers to change order configurations with limited advance notice prior to shipment and occasional customer changes in installation schedules, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is necessarily indicative of future sales. However, we do believe that backlog is an indication of a customer’s willingness to install our solutions. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, our backlog was $114.0 million and $69.6 million, respectively. 10 Additional Information Omnicell, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1992 under the name Omnicell Technologies, Inc. and reincorporated in Delaware in 2001 as Omnicell, Inc. We file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy or information statements. Those reports and statements as well as all amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act (1) are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, (2) are available at the SEC’s internet site (http://www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and (3) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with, or furnishing to, the SEC. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our website address is www.omnicell.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference nor otherwise included in this report. Our principal executive offices are located at 1201 Charleston Road, Mountain View, California 94043 and our telephone number is (650) 251-6100. Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information as of March 19, 2007 about our executive officers: Name Age Position Randall A. Lipps 49 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors Robin G. Seim 47 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer J. Christopher Drew 41 Senior Vice President, Operations John G. Choma 52 Vice President, Organizational Development, Learning and Performance Dan S. Johnston 43 Vice President and General Counsel Renee M. Luhr 46 Vice President of Sales Brian Rodli 45 Chief Strategy Officer and Interim Vice President of Marketing Randall A. Lipps was named Chief Executive Officer and President of Omnicell in October 2002. Mr. Lipps has served as Chairman of the Board and a Director of Omnicell since founding Omnicell in September 1992. Mr. Lipps received both a B.S. in economics and a B.B.A. from Southern Methodist University. Robin G. Seim joined Omnicell in February 2006 as Vice President and was named Chief Financial Officer in March 2006. From March 2005 to December 2005, Mr. Seim served as Chief Financial Officer of Mirra, Inc., a developer of digital content protection products. From July 2001 to December 2004, Mr. Seim served as Chief Financial Officer of Candera, Inc., a maker of network-based storage controllers. From September 1999 to April 2001, Mr. Seim served as Chief Financial Officer of Villa Montage Systems, Inc., a provider of residential broadband access management systems. Mr. Seim received a B.S. in accounting from California State University, Sacramento. J. Christopher Drew joined Omnicell in April 1994 and was named Senior Vice President, Operations in January 2005. From April 1994 to January 2005, Mr. Drew served in various management positions with us, including Vice President of Branded Solutions and Director of Corporate Development. Mr. Drew received a B.A. in economics from Amherst College and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. John G. Choma joined Omnicell in January 2004 as Vice President of Performance Management and was named Vice President, Organizational Development, Employee Learning and Performance in January 2005. From May 2003 to July 2004, Mr. Choma owned and operated World Champion Performance, a consulting firm. From June 2001 to May 2003, Mr. Choma served as Manager of Sales 11 Training with Openwave Systems, Inc., a provider of open software products and services and from August 2000 to June 2001 as Manager of Sales Training and Development with Broadband Office, Inc., a broadband telecommunications company. Mr. Choma received a B.S. in education from the University of Virginia and earned a Certified Performance Technologist designation from the International Society for Performance Improvement. Dan S. Johnston joined Omnicell in November 2003 as Vice President and General Counsel. From April 1999 to November 2003, Mr. Johnston was Vice President and General Counsel at Be, Inc., a software company. From September 1994 to March 1999, Mr. Johnson was an attorney with the law firm Cooley Godward Kronish LLP. Mr. Johnston received a B.S. in computer information systems from Humboldt State University and a J.D. from the Santa Clara University School of Law. Renee M. Luhr joined Omnicell in February 1999 as Vice President of Marketing and Midwest Operations and was named Vice President, Sales in March 2005. Ms. Luhr has also served as Omnicell’s Director of National Accounts and as Vice President of Corporate and Clinical Sales. Ms. Luhr received a B.A. in economics from Northwestern University. Brian R. Rodli joined Omnicell in January 2006 as Chief Strategy Officer and was appointed Interim Vice President of Marketing in April 2006. From April 2001 to January 2005 Mr. Rodli was the Managing Director of Growth Initiatives, a consulting company, and from June 2000 to March 2001 served as Chief Financial Officer of Surveyor Corporation, a developer of foundation technologies for visual connectivity. From January 1998 to May 2000, Mr. Rodli served as Director, Corporate Development at Transamerica Corporation, a financial services company. Mr. Rodli received an A.B. degree in economics from Harvard University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established companies with greater resources. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is intensely competitive and is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions and dynamic customer requirements. We expect continued and increased competition from current and future competitors, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Our current direct competitors in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include Pyxis Corporation (a division of Cardinal Health, Inc.), McKesson Automation Inc. (a business unit of McKesson Corporation), AmerisourceBergen Corporation (through its acquisition of MedSelect, Inc. and Automed), the Baxter Medication Delivery business of Baxter International Inc., Cerner Corporation, Eclipsys Corporation, IDX Systems Corporation (a division of GE Healthcare) and; Siemens Medical Solutions (a division of Siemens AG). The competitive challenges we face in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include, but are not limited to, the following: · our competitors may develop, license or incorporate new or emerging technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services; 12 · certain competitors have greater brand name recognition and a more extensive installed base of medication and supply dispensing systems or other products and services than we do, and such advantages could be used to increase their market share; · other established or emerging companies may enter the medication management and supply chain solutions market; · current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including larger, more established healthcare supply companies, thereby increasing their ability to develop and offer products and services to address the needs of our prospective customers; and · our competitors may secure products and services from suppliers on more favorable terms or secure exclusive arrangements with suppliers or buyers that may impede the sales of our products and services. Competitive pressures could result in price reductions of our products and services, fewer customer orders and reduced gross margins, any of which could harm our business. Changing customer requirements could decrease the demand for our products and services. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is intensely competitive and is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions and dynamic customer requirements that may render existing products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our position in the medication management and supply chain solutions market could erode rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to meet changing customer requirements. The process of developing products and services such as those we offer is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly more complex and expensive in the future as new technologies are introduced. If we are unable to enhance our existing products or develop new products to meet changing customer requirements, demand for our products could decrease. Any reduction in the demand for or adoption of our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services would reduce our revenues. Our medication and supply dispensing systems represent only one approach to managing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies at healthcare facilities. Many healthcare facilities still use traditional approaches that do not include automated methods of medication and supply dispensing management. As a result, we must continuously educate existing and prospective customers about the advantages of our products. Our medication and supply dispensing systems typically represent a sizeable initial capital expenditure for healthcare organizations. Changes in the budgets of these organizations and the timing of spending under these budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services. In addition, these budgets are often characterized by limited resources and conflicting spending priorities among different departments. Any decrease in expenditures by these healthcare facilities, particularly our significant customers, could decrease demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services and reduce our revenues. We may not continue to be successful in marketing our medication and supply dispensing systems, and the level of market acceptance of our systems may not continue to be sufficient to generate operating income. 13 Our current and potential customers may have other business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our products and services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large drug and medical-surgical supply distribution companies that sell their distribution services to our current and potential customers. As a result, if a customer is a distribution customer of one of our competitors, the customer may be motivated to purchase medication and supply dispensing systems or other automation solutions from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance their business relationship with that competitor. If we experience delays in or loss of sales of, delays in installations of, or delays in the recognition of revenue associated with our medication and supply dispensing systems, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The purchase of our medication and supply dispensing systems is often part of a customer’s larger initiative to re-engineer its pharmacy, distribution and materials management systems. As a result, the purchase of our medication and supply dispensing systems often entail larger strategic purchases by customers that frequently require more complex and stringent contractual requirements and generally involves a significant commitment of management attention and resources by prospective customers. These larger and more complex transactions often require the input and approval of many decision-makers, including pharmacy directors, materials managers, nurse managers, financial managers, information systems managers, administrators, lawyers and boards of directors. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the sale of our medication and supply dispensing systems is often lengthy and subject to a number of delays over which we have little or no control. A delay in, or loss of, sales of our medication and supply dispensing systems could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and could harm our business. In addition, and in part as a result of the complexities inherent in larger transactions, the average time between the purchase and installation of our systems has increased for reasons that are often outside of our control. Since we recognize revenue only upon installation of our systems at a customer’s site, any delay in installation by our customers also causes a delay in the recognition of revenue for that system. Further, the larger, more complex transactions often require us to include negotiated contractual terms that have the effect of delaying revenue recognition under the accounting rules that apply to us. We have experienced substantial growth and we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage future growth. Our Revenue grew by 27.3% in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Our ability to continue to grow future revenues profitably is dependent on our ability to continue to manage costs and control expenses. We expect our revenues to continue to grow, and we may not be able to manage this anticipated growth effectively. Management of our anticipated growth will require the devotion of significant time and attention. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to continue to receive orders from customers, the volume of installations we are able to complete, our ability to continue to meet our customers needs and provide a quality installation experience, and our flexibility in manpower allocations among customers to complete installations on a timely basis. Our revenue growth rate may slow in the future if our revenues increase to higher levels. Our expense control is dependent on our ability to continue to develop and leverage effective and efficient human and information technology systems, our ability to gain efficiencies in our workforce through the local and world-wide labor markets, and our ability to grow our outsourced vendor supply model. Our expense growth rate may equal or exceed our revenue growth rate if we are unable to streamline our operations, or fail to reduce the costs or increase the margins of our products. 14 If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled and motivated personnel, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our success is highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of our key management, sales, technical and engineering staff. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel. As more of our products are installed in increasingly complex environments, greater technical expertise will be required. As our installed base of customers increases, we will also face additional demands on our customer service and support personnel, requiring additional resources to meet these demands. We may experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified technical, engineering, managerial, sales, marketing, financial reporting and other personnel can be intense and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Competitors have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to recruit our employees. In addition, we have historically used stock options and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. Share-based compensation expense recorded under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (R) (revised 2004) “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123 (R), could make it more difficult and less favorable for us to grant stock options to employees in the future. If employees believe that the incentives that they would receive under any such modified strategy are less attractive, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our existing business, which could negatively impact our operating results. As a part of our business strategy, during the past few years we acquired an automated pharmacy storage and retrieval system, a bedside dispensing platform, and an open supply management system. We may seek to acquire other businesses, technologies or products in the future. While we expect to analyze carefully all potential transactions before committing to them, we cannot assure you that any transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders, or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to: · difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; · substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business; · discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are not realizable; · failure to achieve anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; · difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business; and · failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited previous experience. 15 The healthcare industry faces financial constraints and consolidation that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. The healthcare industry has faced, and will likely continue to face, significant financial constraints. For example, the shift to managed care in the 1990s put pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs, and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 significantly reduced Medicare reimbursement to healthcare organizations. Our automation solutions often involve a significant financial commitment by our customers and, as a result, our ability to grow our business is largely dependent on our customers’ information technology budgets. To the extent healthcare information technology spending declines or increases more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. Many healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery organizations with greater market power. If this consolidation continues, it could reduce the number of our target customers. In addition, the resulting organizations could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to price erosion. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with group purchasing organizations or other similar organizations, we may have difficulty selling our products and services. We have agreements with various group purchasing organizations, such as AmeriNet, Inc., Consorta, Inc., Cleveland Health Network, HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P., MAGNET Group, Novation, LLC, Premier, Inc., Seagate and Yankee Alliance, which enable us to more readily sell our products and services to customers represented by these organizations. Our relationships with these organizations are terminable at the convenience of either party. The loss of any of these relationships could impact the breadth of our customer base and could impair our ability to increase our revenues. We cannot assure you that these organizations will renew our contracts on similar terms, if at all, and they may choose to terminate our contracts before they expire. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may vary in the future depending on many factors that include, but are not limited to, the following: · the ability to successfully install our products on a timely basis and meet other contractual obligations necessary to recognize revenue; · the size and timing of orders for our medication and supply dispensing systems, and their installation and integration; · the overall demand for healthcare medication management and supply chain solutions; · changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; · the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by us or our competitors; · the relative proportions of revenues we derive from products and services; · our customers’ budget cycles; · changes in our operating expenses; · the performance of our products; · changes in our business strategy; and · economic and political conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and tax increases. 16 Due to all of these factors, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate, which in turn may cause the market price of our stock to decline. We have a history of operating losses and we cannot assure you that we will maintain profitability. While we had net income of $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a net loss of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We can not assure you that we will be profitable in the future, either on a quarterly or annual basis. If the market price of our common stock continues to be highly volatile, the value of your investment in our common stock may decline. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our common stock traded between $10.31 and $20.57 per share. The market price for shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In addition, our announcements or external events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These announcements or external events may include: · our operating results; · developments in our relationships with corporate customers; · changes in the ratings of our common stock by securities analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products; or · general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock market as a whole from time to time has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline irrespective of our performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. We have outstanding options that have the potential to dilute shareholder value and cause our stock price to decline We frequently grant stock options to our employees. At December 31, 2006, we had options outstanding to purchase 5,237,321 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.80 to $20.00 per share. If some or all of such shares are sold into the public market over a short time period, the price of our common stock may decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at the prevailing market prices. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future on terms that we deem acceptable. Beginning with fiscal 2006, we recognized expense for stock based compensation related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. There is no assurance that the expense we are required to recognize measures the accurate value of our share-based payment awards, and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, starting with fiscal 2006, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. The application of SFAS No. 123(R) requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behavior. 17 As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), beginning with fiscal 2006, our earnings were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R). This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. For example, in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we determined that controls pertaining to the timely review of reconciliations and account balances impacting lease receivables, prepaid and other current assets, inventories, accrued liabilities, product revenue and share-based compensation were also not effective. The largest error was a misstatement of interest income associated with leases, resulting in a revision of quarterly financial data in 2006. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2006. If we cannot in the future favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reports which could cause our stock price to decline. If our U.S. government customers do not receive their annual funding, our ability to recognize revenues on future sales to U.S. government customers, to sell our U.S. government receivables to third-party leasing companies or to collect payments on unsold receivables from U.S. government customers could be impaired. U.S. government customers sign five-year non-cancelable payment terms but are subject to one-year government budget funding cycles. In our judgment and based on our history with these accounts, we believe these receivables are collectable. However, in the future, the failure of any of our U.S. government customers to receive their annual funding could impair our ability to sell to these customers or to sell our U.S. government receivables to third-party leasing companies. In addition, the ability to collect payments on unsold receivables could be impaired and may result in a write down of our unsold receivables to U.S. government customers. As of December 31, 2006, the balance of our unsold leases to U.S. government customers was $12.9 million. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our medication and supply dispensing systems and our business may suffer if we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of components and equipment on a timely basis. Although we generally use parts and components for our products with a high degree of modularity, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of all components in a timely manner from existing sources, or where necessary, from alternative sources of supply. In 2006, we secured a single source third-party manufacturing partner to build several of our sub-assemblies. Our failure to obtain alternative vendors, if required, for any of the numerous components used to manufacture our products could limit our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business. Our reliance on a single source partner to build our hardware sub-assemblies, a reduction or interruption in supply from our partners or suppliers, or a significant increase in the price of one or more components could have an adverse impact on our business, 18 operating results and financial condition. In addition, this impact could damage customer relationships and any failure of a contractor to perform adequately could harm our business. If we fail to manage our inventory properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is a complex task. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply or that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing, the general unpredictability of demand for specific products and customer requests for quick delivery schedules, may result in us maintaining large amounts of inventory. Other factors, including changes in market demand, customer requirements and technology, may cause inventory to become obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could result in inventory write-downs, which in turn could harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate our automation solutions with the existing information systems of our customers, they may choose not to use our products and services. For healthcare facilities to fully benefit from our automation solutions, our systems must integrate with their existing information systems. This may require substantial cooperation, investment and coordination on the part of our customers. There is little uniformity in the systems currently used by our customers, which complicates the integration process. If these systems are not successfully integrated, our customers could choose not to use or to reduce their use of our automation solutions, which would harm our business. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for technology and processes and our ability to preserve our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. We have pursued patent protection in the United States and foreign jurisdictions for technology that we believe to be proprietary and for technology that offers us a potential competitive advantage for our products. We intend to continue to pursue such protection in the future. Our issued patents relate to various features of our medication and supply dispensing systems. We can not assure you that we will file any patent applications in the future, that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that, if issued, such patents will provide significant protection for our technology and processes. Furthermore, we can not assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or that others will not design around the patents we own. All of our system software is copyrighted and subject to the protection of applicable copyright laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Intellectual property claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. We are aware of one third-party patent issued several years ago that may relate to certain of our products. Although we have received no notice alleging infringement from this third party to date, there can be no assurance that such third party will not assert an infringement claim against us in the future. Other than this patent, we do not believe that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third parties. In the future, third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights with respect to current or future products. We expect that developers of medication and supply dispensing systems will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We do not carry special insurance that covers intellectual property infringement claims; however, such claims may be covered under our traditional insurance policies. These policies contain terms, conditions and exclusions that make recovery for intellectual infringement claims difficult to guarantee. Any 19 infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are complex and may contain defects, which could harm our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We market software products. These software products include OmniLinkRx, SecureVault, OmniRx, OptiFlex, SafetyMed, OmniBuyer and OmniGate. Although we perform extensive testing prior to releasing software products, such products may contain undetected errors or bugs when first released. These may not be discovered until the product has been used by customers in different application environments. Failure to discover product deficiencies or bugs could delay product introductions, require design modifications to previously shipped products, cause unfavorable publicity or negatively impact system shipments, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our products provide medication management and supply chain solutions for the healthcare industry. Despite the presence of healthcare professionals as intermediaries between our products and patients, if our products fail to provide accurate and timely information or operate as designed, customers, patients or their family members could assert claims against us for product liability. Also, in the event that any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall or redesign those products. Litigation with respect to liability claims, regardless of any outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of product liability claims. We possess a variety of insurance policies that include coverage for general commercial liability, technology errors and omissions liability. However, these policies may not be adequate against product liability claims. A successful claim brought against us, or any claim or product recall that results in negative publicity about us, could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs and such financing may not be available on favorable terms and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We intend to continue to expend substantial funds for research and development activities, product development, expansion of sales and marketing activities and the potential acquisition and integration of complementary products and businesses. As a consequence, in the future we may need to seek additional financing to meet our working capital needs and to finance capital expenditures, as well as to fund operations or potential acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations. We have an effective “shelf” registration statement which enables us to offer and sell, from time to time, up to a total dollar amount of $100 million of our debt and equity securities in one or more offerings, which could cause our stockholders to experience dilution of their ownership interest and may cause our stock price to decline. 20 If our new product solutions do not achieve market acceptance, our sales and operating results will be affected. We occasionally introduce new products. Our ongoing business goals are dependent in part on customer acceptance of these new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in marketing these products, that these products will compete effectively with similar products sold by our competitors or that the level of market acceptance of such products will be sufficient to generate expected revenues and synergies with our other products. Deployment of these new products often requires interoperability with other Omnicell products as well as with healthcare facilities’ existing information management systems. If these products fail to satisfy these demanding technological objectives, our customers may be dissatisfied and we may be unable to generate future sales. Failure to establish a significant base of customer references will significantly reduce our ability to sell these products to additional customers. We are dependent on technologies provided by third-party vendors. Some of our products incorporate technologies owned by third parties that are licensed to us for use, modification, and distribution. If we lose access to third party technologies, or we lose the ongoing rights to modify and distribute these technologies with our products we will either have to devote resources to independently develop, maintain and support the technologies ourselves or transition to another vendor. Any independent development, maintenance or support of these technologies by us or the transition to alternative technologies could be costly, time consuming and could delay our product releases and upgrade schedules. These factors could negatively and materially affect our ability to market, sell or distribute our products and in turn our business and prospects. Our international operations may subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We currently have operations outside of the United States, consisting primarily of software development and customer support through our India subsidiary. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: · the difficulty of managing an organization operating in various countries; · growing political sentiment against international outsourcing of support services and development; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · changes in regulatory requirements; · the requirement to comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including local labor ordinances and changes in tariff rates; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries; and · political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities in areas in which we have facilities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot assure you that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results. Government regulation of the healthcare industry could reduce demand for our products. While the manufacture and sale of our current products are not currently regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, these products, or our future products, if any, may be regulated in the future. A requirement for FDA approval could reduce the demand for our products. Pharmacies are regulated by individual state boards of pharmacy that issue rules for pharmacy licensure in their respective jurisdictions. State boards of pharmacy do not license or approve our medication and supply dispensing systems however, pharmacies using our equipment are subject to state board approval. The failure of such pharmacies to meet differing requirements from a significant number of state boards of 21 pharmacy could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, hospitals must be accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, or JCAHO, in order to be eligible for Medicaid and Medicare funds. JCAHO does not approve or accredit medication and supply dispensing systems; however, disapproval of our customers’ medication and supply dispensing management methods and their failure to meet JCAHO requirements could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. While we have implemented a Privacy and Use of Information Policy and strictly adhere to established privacy principles, use of customer information guidelines and federal and state statutes and regulations regarding privacy and confidentiality, we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. This legislation required the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to adopt national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, to adopt standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and to establish a schedule for implementing national health data privacy legislation or regulations. In August 2002, HHS published final modifications to its privacy regulations that took effect on April 14, 2003. These regulations restrict the use and disclosure of personally identifiable health information by our customers who are “covered entities” under HIPAA. Because Omnicell may be considered a “business associate” under HIPAA, many of our customers have required that we enter into written agreements governing the way we handle any patient information we may encounter in providing our products and services. In February 2003, HHS issued final security rules requiring covered entities to implement appropriate technical and physical safeguards of electronically transmitted personal health information by April 2005. We cannot predict the potential impact of these rules, rules that have not yet been proposed or any other rules that might be finally adopted on our customers or on Omnicell. In addition, other federal and/or state privacy legislation may be enacted at any time. These laws and regulations could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could reduce the demand for our products or force us to redesign our products in order to meet regulatory requirements. We adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that is beneficial to our stockholders. In February 2003, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that is beneficial to our stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (other than two current stockholders and their affiliated entities, which will not trigger the rights plan unless they acquire beneficial ownership of 17.5% and 22.5% or more, respectively, of our outstanding common stock) or ten business days after commencement or announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer’s rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, a change in control of our company that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. 22 Our headquarters and principal facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster or any other catastrophic event could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our headquarters and principal facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events, including the effects of war or acts of terrorism. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously or completely impaired or destroyed. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 