Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information referenced in this report, we are subject to a number of specific risks outlined below. If any of these events or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and/or the market price of our Common Stock could be materially affected. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our Common Stock. Our business strategy is to grow the business both organically and through acquisitions. This strategy of growth may subject us to certain risks and uncertainties. As part of our strategy, we seek to grow both organically and through strategic acquisitions. Our organic initiatives may involve entering new markets or service lines where we currently do not have a presence. Risks associated with achieving our organic growth objectives include higher than anticipated levels of competition, incorrect assumptions about the timing of market development and size, and the relative experience levels of key company personnel involved in the development of new markets on our behalf. In addition, we may invest resources currently into organic growth initiatives that may take a significant amount of time to come to fruition, or may never materialize at all. This would result in reduced margins and cash flow. Acquisitions also present a myriad of risks, including failure to realize anticipated synergies, difficulties with the integration of the acquired business and/or with the retention of key management personnel from the acquired company, cultural differences with the acquired - 8 - Table of Contents company, significant transaction costs associated with the purchase and assimilation of the business, the risk of subjecting our company to unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business, and the potential impairment of intangible assets and goodwill associated with the transaction. In addition, there is a risk that we may not be able to identify suitable targets at appropriate valuations that will enable us to execute on our growth strategy. Also, as part of executing an acquisition, we may utilize equity in the Company to partially fund the transaction, which could dilute share ownership. In the event we use our cash or borrowings under our Credit Agreement as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could significantly reduce our liquidity. Our goodwill or other intangible assets could become impaired and result in a material reduction in our profits. We have made acquisitions which have resulted in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets in our financial statements, and we plan to make additional acquisitions going forward. Our goodwill balance is evaluated for potential impairment during the second quarter of each year and as considered necessary based upon the identification of certain triggering events. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying amount, including goodwill. To determine the fair value of the reporting unit, we utilize both the “Income Approach,” which is based on estimates of future net cash flows and the “Market Approach,” which observes transactional evidence and operational results involving similar businesses. We also perform an analysis of our intangible assets to test for impairment whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. Examples of such events are i) significant adverse changes in its market value, useful life, physical condition, or in the business climate that could affect its value; ii) a current-period operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the intangible asset; and iii) a current expectation that, more likely than not, the intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, a material write-off in the required amount could lead to a reduction or elimination of our profits. Our revenues are primarily derived from the public sector. Changes and fluctuations in the public sector’s spending priorities, or the loss of business from one of these key customers, could materially affect our future revenue and growth prospects. Our primary customers, which comprise a substantial portion of our revenue and backlog, include agencies of the U.S. federal government and state and local governments and agencies that depend on funding or partial funding provided by the U.S. federal government. Consequently, any loss of one or more of these key customers, including FEMA, as well as any significant changes or fluctuations in the government’s spending priorities as a result of policy changes or economic downturns may directly affect our future revenue streams. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may only be partially funded, and additional funding is committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, increases in raw material costs, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts, and the overall level of government expenditures. Our inability to continue to win or renew government contracts could result in material reductions in our revenues and profits. We have increased our contract activity with the U.S. federal, state and local governments in recent years. We compete for and win a number of these contracts based on application of a quality based standard. Our ability to earn revenues and maintain margins from our existing and future government projects will depend upon the continuation of these quality based selection standards as well as the availability of funding by our served and targeted government agencies. We cannot control whether those clients will fund or continue funding our outstanding projects. - 9 - Table of Contents If our relationship or reputation with government clients deteriorates for any reason and affects our ability to win new contracts or renew existing ones, we could experience an adverse impact to our financial results. We are engaged in highly competitive markets that pose challenges to continued revenue growth. Our business is characterized by competition for contracts within the government and private sectors in which service contracts are typically awarded through competitive bidding processes. We compete with a large number of other service providers who offer the principal services we offer. In this competitive environment, we must provide technical proficiency, quality of service, and experience to ensure future contract awards and revenue and profit growth. Changes in funding availability to either the public or private sectors may increase competitive pressure within our industry which could result in a reduction in revenues and margins in the future. Unpredictable economic cycles or uncertain demand for our engineering capabilities and related services could cause our revenues to fluctuate or contribute to delays or the inability of customers to pay our fees. Demand for our services is affected by the general level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate, both in the U.S. and internationally. Our customers, and the markets in which we compete to provide services, are likely to experience periods of economic decline from time to time. Adverse economic conditions may decrease our customers’ willingness to make capital expenditures or otherwise reduce their spending to purchase our services. In addition, adverse economic conditions could alter the overall mix of services that our customers seek to purchase, and increased competition during a period of economic decline could result in us accepting contract terms that are less favorable to us than we might be able to negotiate under other circumstances. Adverse economic conditions, changes in our mix of services or a less favorable contracting environment may cause our revenues and margins to decline. Moreover, our customers may experience difficult business climates from time to time that may decrease our clients’ ability to obtain financing and could cause delays or failures to pay our fees as a result. Our ability to recruit, train and retain professional personnel of the highest quality has helped to build our reputation and establish a competitive advantage. Our future inability to attract and retain talent would adversely affect our competitiveness. Our contract obligations in the markets we serve are performed by a staff of well-qualified engineers, technical professionals and management personnel. Our future growth potential requires the effective recruiting, training, and retention of these employees. Our inability to retain these well-qualified personnel and recruit additional well-qualified personnel would adversely affect our business performance and limit our ability to perform new contracts. Our international business operations are subject to unique risks and challenges that create increased uncertainty in these markets. Our international operations are subject to unique risks. These risks can include: potentially dynamic social, political and economic environments; civil disturbances, unrest, or violence including terrorism associated with operating in a war zone; volatile labor conditions due to strikes and general difficulties in staffing international operations with highly qualified personnel; and logistical and communication challenges. Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in foreign countries as well as inconsistent regulations, diverse licensing, and legal and tax requirements that differ from one country to another could also adversely affect our international projects. Our involvement in partnerships, joint ventures and use of subcontractors exposes us to additional legal and market reputation damages. Our methods of service delivery include the use of partnerships, subcontractors, joint ventures and other ventures. If our partners or subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform their obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be unable to adequately perform or deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate - 10 - Table of Contents performance and delivery of the contracted services. Additionally, we may be exposed to claims for damages that are a result of a partner’s or subcontractor’s performance. We could also suffer contract termination and damage to our reputation as a result of a partner’s or subcontractor’s performance. In addition, we may participate in partnerships, joint ventures or other ventures in which we do not hold the controlling interest. To the extent the partner with the controlling interest in such an arrangement makes decisions that negatively impact that entity, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We are subject to laws and regulations associated with our government contracts. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be prohibited from completing our existing government contracts or suspended from government contracting and subcontracting for some period of time or debarred. Our compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the procurement, administration, and performance of our government contracts is dependent upon our ability to ensure that we properly design and execute compliant procedures. Our termination from any of our larger government contracts or suspension from future government contracts for any reason would result in material declines in expected revenue. Because U.S. federal laws permit government agencies to terminate a contract for convenience, the U.S. federal government may terminate or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. Our operations are also subject to the risk of changes in laws and policies which may impose restrictions on our business, including trade restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in, or new interpretations of, existing regulations and the impact of these changes could be material. Employee, partner, joint venture or subcontractor misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Violations of foreign governmental regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws could result in fines, penalties and criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers or both and could adversely affect our business. Our foreign operations are subject to governmental regulations in the countries in which we operate as well as U.S. laws. These include regulations relating to currency conversion, repatriation of earnings, taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel, and the increasing requirement in some countries to make greater use of local employees and suppliers, including, in some jurisdictions, mandates that provide for greater local participation in the ownership and control of certain local business assets. - 11 - Table of Contents The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar other worldwide anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, prohibit improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have established an internal control structure, corporate policies, compliance and training processes to reduce the risk of violation, we cannot ensure that these procedures will protect us from violations of such policies by our employees or agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to fines and penalties and suspension or debarment from contracting. Events of non-compliance could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Violations of such laws or allegations of violation could disrupt our business and result in material adverse results to our operating results or future profitability. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. It is important for us to control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins. A significant portion of our contracts are being conducted on a fixed price or not to exceed basis. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Our not to exceed contracts require that we invoice costs up to a maximum dollar amount determined by the contract. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price and not to exceed contracts only if we properly estimate and control our costs on the contracts. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. We use “percentage-of-completion” accounting methods for many of our projects. This method may result in volatility in reported revenues and profits. Our revenues and profits for many of our contracts are recognized ratably as those contracts are performed. This rate is based primarily on the proportion of labor costs incurred to date to total labor costs projected to be incurred for the entire project. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenues and profit to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed and the amounts of any change orders that have been generally agreed upon but not approved. Our failure to accurately estimate these often subjective factors could result in reduced profits or losses for certain contracts. If we miss a required performance standard, fail to timely complete, or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor or other disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates resulting in lower future project profitability, or project losses, some which could be significant. - 12 - Table of Contents Our government and certain private sector contracts may give the customer the right to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion. Therefore, our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments, delays and cancellations. We cannot assure that our funded or unfunded backlog will be realized as revenues or that, if realized, it will result in profits. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time prior to project execution and, once project execution begins, revenues may occur unevenly over current and future periods. Our ability to earn revenues from our backlog depends on the availability of funding for various U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. In addition, most of our private domestic industrial clients have termination for convenience provisions in their contracts. Therefore, project terminations, suspensions or reductions in scope may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. Project cancellations, delays and scope adjustments could further reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenues and profits that we actually earn. We are subject to routine U.S. federal, state and local government audits related to our government contracts. If audit findings are unfavorable, we could experience a reduction in our profitability. Our government contracts are subject to audit. These audits may result in the determination that certain costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowable or have not been properly allocated to government contracts according to federal government regulations. We are subject to audits for several years after payment for services has been received. Based on these audits, government entities may adjust or seek reimbursement for previously paid amounts. It is possible, however, that an audit in the future could have an adverse effect on our revenue, profits and cash flow. Our profits and revenues could suffer if we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. We engage in services that can result in substantial injury or damages that may expose us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury and wrongful death claims, employee or labor disputes, professional liability claims, and general commercial disputes involving project cost overruns and liquidated damages as well as other claims. In addition, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about environmental and engineering conditions of project sites for our clients. In the event that these professional judgments and recommendations are included in the final work product delivered to our clients, we have no ability to control the manner in which our clients use such information. As a result, we may be deemed to be responsible if this information is relied upon by others without appropriate disclaimers and the information is later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities. In addition, our insurance policies contain exclusions that insurance providers may use to deny us insurance coverage. If we sustain liabilities that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, including our profits and revenues. We are self-insured or carry deductibles for a significant portion of our estimated claims exposure. If actual losses exceed our estimate it could result in under or uninsured claims that may materially and adversely affect our operating income and profitability. We are self-insured or carry deductibles for most of our insurance coverages, including certain insurance programs related to discontinued businesses. Because of these deductibles and self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase in the future. Under certain conditions, we may elect or be required to increase our self-insured or deductible amounts, which would increase our already significant exposure to expense from claims. If any claim exceeds our coverage, we would bear the excess expense, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. If the frequency or severity of claims or our expenses increase, our operating income and profitability could be materially adversely affected. - 13 - Table of Contents Due to the nature of the work we perform to complete our contracts, we are subject to potential liability claims and contract disputes. Our contracts often involve projects where design, construction or systems failures or accidents, could result in substantially large or punitive damages for which we could have liability. Our practice involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of facilities and public infrastructure projects. Although we have adopted a range of insurance, risk management, safety and risk avoidance programs designed to reduce potential liabilities, there can be no assurance that such programs will protect us fully from all risks and liabilities. Certain of our clients require that we satisfy various safety criteria in order to bid and compete for contract awards. Although we have dedicated resources assigned to maintaining and implementing effective health, safety and environmental (HSE) work procedures, failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability and could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock, due to numerous factors, including: • Cyclical spending, together with changes in levels of spending, by our public and private clients; • Project mix and employee utilization; • Termination of engagements without penalty; • Economic and political conditions; • Timing of the execution of change orders and other contract adjustments; • Weather conditions that delay project execution; • Changes in the competitive marketplace for our services; • Transaction costs associated with acquisitions, assumptions of liabilities of acquired businesses and integration costs; and • Claims and settlements of litigation. Any significant change to these factors could cause a significant fluctuation in our quarterly results. Our inability to achieve the Credit Agreement’s financial covenants, after a cure period, or the inability of one or more financial institutions in the consortium to meet its commitment under our Credit Agreement could impact our liquidity for working capital needs or our growth strategy. Our unsecured Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) is with a consortium of financial institutions and provides for a commitment of $125 million through September 30, 2015. The commitment includes the sum of the principal amount of revolving credit loans outstanding and the aggregate face value of outstanding standby letters of credit. The Credit Agreement requires us to meet minimum equity, leverage, interest and rent coverage, and current ratio covenants. If any of these financial covenants or certain other conditions of borrowing is not achieved, under certain circumstances, after a cure period, the banks may demand the repayment of all borrowings outstanding and/or require deposits to cover the outstanding letters of credit. In addition, in future periods we may leverage our Credit Agreement for working capital needs or to facilitate our growth strategy, specifically utilizing our available credit to fund strategic acquisitions, which may impact our liquidity. Our inability to achieve the Credit Agreement’s financial covenants, after a cure period, or the inability of one or more financial institutions in the consortium to meet its commitment under our Credit Agreement could impact our liquidity for working capital needs or our growth strategy. - 14 - Table of Contents Our business depends on continuous uninterrupted service to clients As a provider of professional services, we rely heavily on computer, information and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate and control our business. Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches and similar events or disruptions. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of and protect our systems, systems operation could be interrupted or delayed. Additionally, because of our geographic diversification, severe weather can cause our employees to miss work and interrupt the delivery of our services, resulting in a loss of revenue. In the event we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our locations (including our corporate headquarters building), our business could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to pay contractual damages or face the suspension or loss of a client’s business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 