ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established companies with greater resources. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is intensely competitive and is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions and dynamic customer requirements. We expect continued and increased competition from current and future competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Our current direct competitors in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include Pyxis Corporation (a division of Cardinal Health, Inc.), McKesson Automation Inc. (a business unit of McKesson Corporation), AmerisourceBergen Corporation (through its acquisition of MedSelect, Inc. and Automed), Talyst, Cerner Corporation, Emerson Electronic Co. and Stinger Medical, InfoLogix, Inc. Ergotron, Inc., Artromick International, Inc., and Rubbermaid Medical Solutions (a business unit of Newell Rubbermaid Inc). The competitive challenges we face in the medication management and supply chain solutions market include, but are not limited to, the following: •our competitors may develop, license or incorporate new or emerging technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services; •certain competitors have greater brand name recognition and a more extensive installed base of medication and supply dispensing systems or other products and services than we do, and such advantages could be used to increase their market share; 15 Table of Contents •other established or emerging companies may enter the medication management and supply chain solutions market; •current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including larger, more established healthcare supply companies, thereby increasing their ability to develop and offer products and services to address the needs of our prospective customers; and •our competitors may secure products and services from suppliers on more favorable terms or secure exclusive arrangements with suppliers or buyers that may impede the sales of our products and services. Competitive pressures could result in increased price competition for our products and services, fewer customer orders and reduced gross margins, any of which could harm our business. Changing customer requirements could decrease the demand for our products and services. The medication management and supply chain solutions market is intensely competitive and is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions and dynamic customer requirements that may render existing products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our position in the medication management and supply chain solutions market could erode rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to meet changing customer requirements. The process of developing products and services such as those we offer is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly more complex and expensive in the future as new technologies are introduced. If we are unable to enhance our existing products or develop new products to meet changing customer requirements, demand for our products could decrease. Unfavorable economic and market conditions and a lessening demand in the capital equipment and information system markets could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results have been and may continue to be adversely affected by unfavorable global economic and market conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, as well as a lessening demand in the capital equipment and information system markets. Customer demand for our products is intrinsically linked to the strength of the economy. A reduction in demand for capital equipment and information systems caused by deteriorating economic conditions and decreases in corporate and government spending, deferral or delay of capital equipment and information system projects, longer time frames for capital equipment and information system purchasing decisions and generally reduced expenditures for capital and information systems solutions will result in decreased revenues and lower revenue growth rates for us and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Due to the recent tightening credit market and lack of available credit opportunities, some of our customers may experience more difficulty in securing funds to purchase our products, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. Many of the products we sell and lease to our customers are capital equipment, and many of those customers finance their large capital equipment purchases or leases with funds secured from third-party lenders. The recent deterioration in the general economic climate and in the credit market could make it more difficult for our customers to secure financing on large capital equipment deals such as ours. To the extent the tightening in the credit market results in difficulty for our customers in financing purchases or leases of our products, demand for our products could decline. 16 Table of Contents Any reduction in the demand for or adoption of our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services would reduce our revenues. Our medication and supply dispensing systems represent only one approach to managing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and supplies at healthcare facilities. Healthcare facilities still use traditional approaches that do not include automated methods of medication and supply dispensing management. As a result, we must continuously educate existing and prospective customers about the advantages of our products. Our medication and supply dispensing systems typically represent a sizeable initial capital expenditure for healthcare organizations. Changes in the budgets of these organizations and the timing of spending under these budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services. In addition, these budgets are often supported by cash flows that can be negatively affected by declining investment income, and influenced by limited resources, increased operational and financing costs, macroeconomic conditions such as unemployment rates and conflicting spending priorities among different departments. Any decrease in expenditures by healthcare facilities could decrease demand for our medication and supply dispensing systems and related services and reduce our revenues. Our current and potential customers may have other business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our products and services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large companies that sell a variety of products and services into the healthcare market to our current and potential customers. As a result, if a customer is a customer of one of these competitors, the customer may be motivated to purchase medication and supply dispensing systems or other automation solutions from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance their business relationship with that competitor. If we experience delays in or loss of sales of, delays in installations of, or delays in the recognition of revenue associated with our medication and supply dispensing systems, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The purchase of our medication and supply dispensing systems is often part of a customer's larger initiative to re-engineer its pharmacy, distribution and materials management systems. As a result, the purchase of our medication and supply dispensing systems often entail larger strategic purchases by customers that frequently require more complex and stringent contractual requirements and generally involves a significant commitment of management attention and resources by prospective customers. These larger and more complex transactions often require the input and approval of many decision-makers, including pharmacy directors, materials managers, nurse managers, financial managers, information systems managers, administrators, lawyers and boards of directors. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the sale of our medication and supply dispensing systems is often lengthy and subject to a number of delays over which we have little or no control. A delay in, or loss of, sales of our medication and supply dispensing systems could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and could harm our business. In addition, and in part as a result of the complexities inherent in larger transactions, the average time between the purchase and installation of our systems has increased over the past few years for reasons that are often outside of our control. Since we recognize revenue only upon installation of our systems at a customer's site, any delay in installation by our customers also causes a delay in the recognition of revenue for that system. 17 Table of Contents Complications in connection with our current business information system initiative may impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We replaced our enterprise-level business information system and went live with a new enterprise resource planning system in January 2009. This conversion resulted in changes to the tools we use to take orders, procure materials, manage inventories, schedule production, remit billings, collect cash, make payments and perform other business functions. Based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that we will not see the expected benefit from the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. The implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, financial reporting delays, and the implementation could impact our ability to perform necessary business transactions. All of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have experienced substantial growth and we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage future growth. Our revenue grew by 18.2% in 2008 compared to 2007. While current macroeconomic and general market conditions have contributed to a slowdown in our growth recently, if macroeconomic and general market conditions improve and return to historical levels, our ability to continue to grow revenues profitably will be dependent on our ability to continue to manage costs and control expenses. If our revenues continue to grow, we may not be able to manage this anticipated growth effectively. Management of future growth would require the devotion of significant time and attention. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to continue to receive orders from customers, the volume of installations we are able to complete, our ability to continue to meet our customers' needs and provide a quality installation experience and our flexibility in manpower allocations among customers to complete installations on a timely basis. Our expense control is dependent on our ability to continue to develop and leverage effective and efficient human and information technology systems, our ability to gain efficiencies in our workforce through the local and worldwide labor markets and our ability to grow our outsourced vendor supply model. Our expense growth rate may equal or exceed our revenue growth rate if we are unable to streamline our operations, or fail to reduce the costs or increase the margins of our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled and motivated personnel, our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our success is highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of our key management, sales, technical and engineering staff. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel. As more of our products are installed in increasingly complex environments, greater technical expertise will be required. As our installed base of customers increases, we will also face additional demands on our customer service and support personnel, requiring additional resources to meet these demands. We may experience difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Competition for qualified technical, engineering, managerial, sales, marketing, financial reporting and other personnel can be intense and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Competitors have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to recruit our employees. In addition, we have historically used stock options and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. Share-based compensation expense recorded under SFAS No. 123(R) could make it more difficult and less favorable for us to grant stock options to employees in the future. If employees believe that the incentives that they would receive under any such modified strategy are less attractive, 18 Table of Contents we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our existing business, which could negatively impact our operating results. As a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire businesses, technologies or products in the future. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or any future transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders, or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to: •difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; •substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business; •discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are not realizable; •failure to achieve anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; •difficulties related to assimilating the products of an acquired business; and •failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited previous experience. The healthcare industry faces financial constraints and consolidation that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. The healthcare industry has faced, and will likely continue to face, significant financial constraints. For example, the shift to managed care in the 1990s put pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs, and the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 significantly reduced Medicare reimbursement to healthcare organizations. Our automation solutions often involve a significant financial commitment by our customers and, as a result, our ability to grow our business is largely dependent on our customers' capital and operating budgets. To the extent healthcare spending declines or increases more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our products and services could decline. Many healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery organizations to achieve greater market power. If this consolidation continues, it could reduce the number of our target customers. In addition, the resulting organizations could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to price erosion. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with group purchasing organizations or other similar organizations, we may have difficulty selling our products and services. We have contracts with various group purchasing organizations, such as AmeriNet, Inc., HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P., MAGNET Group, Novation, LLC, and Premier, Inc., which enable us to more readily sell our products and services to customers represented by these organizations. Our contracts with these organizations are terminable at the convenience of either party. The loss of any of these relationships could impact the breadth of our customer base and could impair our ability to increase our revenues. We cannot assure you that these organizations will renew our contracts on similar terms, if at all, and they may choose to terminate our contracts before they expire. 19 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may vary in the future depending on many factors that include, but are not limited to, the following: •the ability to successfully install our products on a timely basis and meet other contractual obligations necessary to recognize revenue; •the size and timing of orders for our medication and supply dispensing systems, and their installation and integration; •the overall demand for healthcare medication management and supply chain solutions; •changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; •the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by us or our competitors; •the relative proportions of revenues we derive from products and services; •our customers' budget cycles; •changes in our operating expenses; •the performance of our products; •changes in our business strategy; and •economic and political conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and tax increases. Due to all of these factors, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which in turn may cause the market price of our stock to decline. If the market price of our common stock continues to be highly volatile, the value of your investment in our common stock may decline. During the year ended December 31, 2008, our common stock traded between $7.77 and $30.30 per share. The market price for shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In addition, our announcements or external events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These announcements or external events may include: •changes in our operating results; •developments in our relationships with corporate customers; •changes in the ratings of our common stock by securities analysts; •announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations or new products; or •general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock market as a whole from time to time has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline irrespective of our performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents We have outstanding options that have the potential to dilute stockholder value and cause our stock price to decline. We frequently grant stock options to our employees. At December 31, 2008, we had options outstanding to purchase approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.80 to $29.16 per share. If some or all of these shares are sold into the public market over a short time period, the price of our common stock may decline, as the market may not be able to absorb those shares at the prevailing market prices. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future on terms that we deem acceptable. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause our stock price to decline. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, based on our testing of enhanced control procedures, our management had determined that, as of December 31, 2007, we had remediated a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting previously reported in fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If our U.S. government customers do not receive their annual funding, our ability to recognize revenues on future sales to U.S. government customers, to sell our U.S. government receivables to third-party leasing companies or to collect payments on unsold receivables from U.S. government customers could be impaired. U.S. government customers sign contracts with five-year non-cancelable payment terms but are subject to one-year government budget funding cycles. In our judgment and based on our history with these accounts, we believe these receivables are collectable. However, in the future, the failure of any of our U.S. government customers to receive their annual funding could impair our ability to sell to these customers or to sell our U.S. government receivables to third-party leasing companies. In addition, the ability to collect payments on unsold receivables could be impaired and may result in a write-down of our unsold receivables to U.S. government customers. As of December 31, 2008, the balance of our unsold leases to U.S. government customers was $17.4 million. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our medication and supply dispensing systems and our business may suffer if we were required to change suppliers to obtain an adequate supply of components and equipment on a timely basis. Although we generally use parts and components for our products with a high degree of modularity, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of all components in a timely manner from existing sources, or where necessary, from alternative sources of supply. In 2007 and 2008, we engaged multiple single source third-party manufacturers to build several of our sub-assemblies. The risk associated with changing to alternative vendors, if necessary, for any of the numerous components used to manufacture our products could limit our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business. Our reliance on a few single source partners to build our hardware sub-assemblies, a reduction or interruption in supply from our partners or suppliers, or a significant increase in the price of one or more components could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, this impact could damage customer relationships and any failure of a contractor to perform adequately could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our inventory properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is a complex task. A number of factors, including, but not limited to, the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply or that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing, the general unpredictability of demand for specific products and customer requests for quick delivery schedules, may result in us maintaining large amounts of inventory. Other factors, including changes in market demand, customer requirements and technology, may cause inventory to become obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could result in inventory write-downs, which in turn could harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully interface our automation solutions with the existing information systems of our customers, they may choose not to use our products and services. For healthcare facilities to fully benefit from our automation solutions, our systems must interface with their existing information systems. This may require substantial cooperation, incremental investment and coordination on the part of our customers. There is little uniformity in the systems currently used by our customers, which complicates the interfacing process. If these systems are not successfully interfaced, our customers could choose not to use or to reduce their use of our automation solutions, which would harm our business. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our ability to compete. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for technology and processes and our ability to preserve our trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. We have pursued patent protection in the United States and foreign jurisdictions for technology that we believe to be proprietary and for technology that offers us a potential competitive advantage for our products. We intend to continue to pursue such protection in the future. Our issued patents relate to various features of our medication and supply dispensing systems. We cannot assure you that we will file any patent applications in the future, that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that, if issued, such patents will provide significant protection for our technology and processes. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or that others will not design around the patents we own. All of our system software is copyrighted and subject to the protection of applicable copyright laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Intellectual property claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. We expect that developers of medication and supply dispensing systems will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. In the future, third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights with respect to current or future products. In addition, in connection with our 2007 acquisition of Rioux Vision, Inc., we have taken on the defense of a lawsuit filed against Rioux Vision that claims that certain mobile carts designed and sold by Rioux Vision infringe a patent owned by Flo Healthcare Solutions, LLC. In connection with those proceedings, in December of 2008, Flo Healthcare Solutions, LLC filed a lawsuit against Omnicell alleging infringement of the same patent by the same carts from Rioux Vision that Omnicell markets. We do not carry special insurance that covers intellectual property infringement claims; however, such claims may be covered under our traditional insurance policies. These policies contain terms, conditions and exclusions that make recovery for intellectual infringement claims difficult to guarantee. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly 22 Table of Contents litigation, divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are complex and may contain defects, which could harm our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We market products that contain software and software only products. Although we perform extensive testing prior to releasing software products, these products may contain undetected errors or bugs when first released. These may not be discovered until the product has been used by customers in different application environments. Failure to discover product deficiencies or bugs could delay product introductions, require design modifications to previously shipped products, cause unfavorable publicity or negatively impact system shipments, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims against us could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our products provide medication management and supply chain solutions for the healthcare industry. Despite the presence of healthcare professionals as intermediaries between our products and patients, if our products fail to provide accurate and timely information or operate as designed, customers, patients or their family members could assert claims against us for product liability. Moreover, failure of health care facility employees to use our products for their intended purposes could result in product liability claims against us. Litigation with respect to liability claims, regardless of any outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management's attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. We possess a variety of insurance policies that include coverage for general commercial liability, technology errors and omissions liability. However, these policies may not be adequate against product liability claims. A successful claim brought against us, or any claim or product recall that results in negative publicity about us, could harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Also, in the event that any of our products are defective, we may be required to recall or redesign those products. If our new product solutions do not achieve market acceptance, our sales and operating results will be affected. We regularly introduce new products. Our ability to achieve our business goals is dependent in part on customer acceptance of these new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in marketing these products, that these products will compete effectively with similar products sold by our competitors or that the level of market acceptance of such products will be sufficient to generate expected revenues and synergies with our other products. Deployment of these new products often requires interoperability with other Omnicell products as well as with healthcare facilities' existing information management systems. If these products fail to satisfy these demanding technological objectives, our customers may be dissatisfied and we may be unable to generate future sales. Failure to establish a significant base of customer references will significantly reduce our ability to sell these products to additional customers. We are dependent on technologies provided by third-party vendors. Some of our products incorporate technologies owned by third parties that are licensed to us for use, modification, and distribution. If we lose access to third-party technologies, or we lose the ongoing rights to modify and distribute these technologies with our products we will either have to devote 23 Table of Contents resources to independently develop, maintain and support the technologies ourselves or transition to another vendor. Any independent development, maintenance or support of these technologies by us or the transition to alternative technologies could be costly, time consuming and could delay our product releases and upgrade schedules. These factors could negatively and materially affect our ability to market, sell or distribute our products and in turn our business and prospects. Our international operations may subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We currently have operations outside of the United States, consisting primarily of software development and customer support through our India subsidiary. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: •the difficulty of managing an organization operating in various countries; •growing political sentiment against international outsourcing of support services and development; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •changes in foreign regulatory requirements; •the requirement to comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including local labor ordinances and changes in tariff rates; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates and difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries; and •political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities in areas in which we have facilities. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot assure you that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results. Government regulation of the healthcare industry could reduce demand for our products, or substantially increase the cost to produce our products. While the manufacture and sale of our current products are not regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, these products, or our future products, if any, may be regulated in the future by these or other federal agencies due to future legislative and regulatory initiatives or reforms. Direct regulation of our business and products by FDA, DEA or other federal agencies could substantially increase the cost to produce our products and increase the time required to bring those products to market, reduce the demand for our products and reduce our revenues. In addition, healthcare providers and facilities that use our equipment and dispense controlled substances are subject to regulation by DEA. The failure of these providers and facilities to comply with DEA requirements, including the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, could reduce demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Pharmacies are regulated by individual state boards of pharmacy that issue rules for pharmacy licensure in their respective jurisdictions. State boards of pharmacy do not license or approve our medication and supply dispensing systems; however, pharmacies using our equipment are subject to state board approval. The failure of such pharmacies to meet differing requirements from a significant number of state boards of pharmacy could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, hospitals must be accredited by the Joint Commission in order to be eligible for Medicaid and Medicare funds. The Joint Commission does not approve or accredit medication and supply dispensing systems; however, disapproval of our customers' medication and supply dispensing 24 Table of Contents management methods and their failure to meet Joint Commission requirements could decrease demand for our products and harm our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. While we have implemented a Privacy and Use of Information Policy and adhere to established privacy principles, use of customer information guidelines and related federal and state statutes, we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all federal and state healthcare information privacy and security laws that we are directly or indirectly subject to, including, without limitation, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. Among other things, this legislation required the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to adopt national standards governing the conduct of certain electronic health information transactions and protecting the privacy and security of personally identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by "covered entities," which include pharmacies and other healthcare providers with which we do business. The standards adopted to date include, among others, the "Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information," which restrict the use and disclosure of personally identifiable health information by covered entities, and the "Security Standards," which require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the integrity and security of certain electronic health information. While we are not directly regulated as a covered entity under HIPAA, we are a "business associate" to many of our customers that are covered entities. Many of these customers have required that we enter into written agreements governing the way we handle and safeguard any patient information we may encounter in providing our products and services and may impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. A number of states have also enacted privacy and security statutes and regulations that, in some cases, are more stringent than HIPAA and may apply directly to us. If our past or present operations are found to violate any of these laws, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions. In addition, we cannot predict the potential impact of future HIPAA standards and other federal and state privacy and security laws that may be enacted at any time on our customers or on Omnicell. These laws could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, which could reduce the demand for our products or force us to redesign our products in order to meet regulatory requirements. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We intend to continue to expend substantial funds for research and development activities, product development, expansion of sales and marketing activities and the potential acquisition and integration of complementary products and businesses. As a consequence, in the future we may need to seek additional financing to meet our working capital needs and to finance capital expenditures, as well as to fund operations or potential acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations. Our headquarters and principal facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster or any other catastrophic event could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our headquarters and principal facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events, including the effects of war or acts of terrorism. The occurrence of an earthquake, other natural disaster or any 25 Table of Contents other catastrophic event could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or suspend operations at our facilities partially or completely impairing our ability to operate our business. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our stockholders' rights plan and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. Our anti-takeover provisions include provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders' meetings may only be called by the board of directors and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent and requiring that stockholders that desire to nominate any person for election to the board of directors or to make any proposal with respect to business to be conducted at a meeting of our stockholders be submitted in appropriate form to our Secretary within a specified period of time in advance of any such meeting. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In February 2003, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that is beneficial to our stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (other than two current stockholders and their affiliated entities, which will not trigger the rights plan unless they acquire beneficial ownership of 17.5% and 22.5% or more, respectively, of our outstanding common stock) or ten business days after commencement or announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquiror's rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquiror would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquiror from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the plan or by its potential deterrent effect, a change in control of our company that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 