Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to other information referenced in this report, we are subject to a number of specific risks outlined below. If any of these events or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and/or the market price of our common stock could be materially affected. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. Changes and fluctuations in the government spending priorities could materially affect our future revenue and growth prospects. Our primary customers, which compose a substantial portion of our revenue and backlog, include agencies of the U.S. federal government and state and local governments and agencies that depend on funding or partial funding provided by the U.S. federal government. Consequently, any significant changes and fluctuations in the government’s spending priorities as a result of policy changes or economic downturns may directly affect our future revenue streams. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may only be partially funded, and additional funding is committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, rise in raw material costs, delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts, and the overall level of government expenditures. Additionally, reduced spending by the U.S. government may create competitive pressure within our industry which could result in lower revenues and margins in the future. Unpredictable economic cycles or uncertain demand for our engineering capabilities and related services could cause our revenues to fluctuate or contribute to delays or the inability of customers to pay our fees. Demand for our engineering and other services is affected by the general level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate, both in the U.S. and internationally. Our customers, - 8 - Table of Contents particularly our private sector customers, and the markets in which we compete to provide services, are likely to experience periods of economic decline from time to time. Adverse economic conditions may decrease our customers’ willingness to make capital expenditures or otherwise reduce their spending to purchase our services, which could result in diminished revenues and margins for our business. In addition, adverse economic conditions could alter the overall mix of services that our customers seek to purchase, and increased competition during a period of economic decline could result in us accepting contract terms that are less favorable to us than we might be able to negotiate under other circumstances. Changes in our mix of services or a less favorable contracting environment may cause our revenues and margins to decline. Moreover, our customers may experience difficult business climates from time to time and could delay or fail to pay our fees as a result. Our ability to recruit, train, and retain professional personnel of the highest quality is a competitive advantage. Our future inability to do so would adversely affect our competitiveness. Our contract obligations in our engineering and energy markets are performed by our staff of well-qualified engineers, technical professionals, and management personnel. A shortage of qualified technical professionals currently exists in the engineering industry in the U.S. Our future growth potential requires the effective recruiting, training, and retention of these employees. Our inability to retain these well-qualified personnel and recruit additional well-qualified personnel would adversely affect our business performance and limit our ability to perform new contracts. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. It is important for us to control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of what our actual costs will be. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on the contracts. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Due to the nature of the work we perform to complete engineering and energy contracts, we are subject to potential liability claims and contract disputes. Our engineering and energy contracts often involve projects where design, construction, systems failures, or accidents could result in substantially large or punitive damages for which we could have liability. Our engineering practice involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of facilities and public infrastructure projects. Although we have adopted a range of insurance, risk management safety and risk avoidance programs designed to reduce potential liabilities, there can be no assurance that such programs will protect us fully from all risks and liabilities. We may also experience a delay or withholding of payment for services due to performance disputes. If we are unable to resolve these disputes and collect these payments, we would incur profit reductions and reduced cash flows. - 9 - Table of Contents If we miss a required performance standard, fail to timely complete, or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from weather conditions, changes in the project scope of services requested by clients or labor or other disruptions. In some cases, should we fail to meet required performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon financial damages, which are determined by the contract. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. We are subject to procurement laws and regulations associated with our government contracts. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be prohibited from completing our existing government contracts or suspended from government contracting and subcontracting for some period of time. Our compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the procurement, administration, and performance of our government contracts is dependent upon our ability to ensure that we properly design and execute compliant procedures. Our termination from any of our larger government contracts or suspension from future government contracts for any reason would result in material declines in expected revenue. Because U.S. federal laws permit government agencies to terminate a contract for convenience, the U.S. federal government may terminate or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice. We are subject to routine U.S. federal, state and local government audits related to our government contracts. If audit findings are unfavorable, we could experience a reduction in our profitability. Our government contracts are subject to audit. These audits may result in the determination that certain costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowable or have not been properly allocated to government contracts according to federal government regulations. We are subject to audits for several years after payment for services has been received. Based on these audits, government entities may adjust or seek reimbursement for previously paid amounts. None of the audits performed to date on our government contracts have resulted in any significant adjustments to our financial statements. It is possible, however, that an audit in the future could have an adverse effect on our revenue, profits, and cash flow. - 10 - Table of Contents Our inability to continue to win or renew government contracts could result in material reductions in our revenues and profits. We have increased our contract activity with the U.S. federal, state and local governments in recent years. Our ability to earn revenues from our existing and future government projects will depend upon the availability of funding by our served and targeted government agencies. We cannot control whether those clients will fund or continue funding our outstanding projects. If our relationship or reputation with government clients deteriorates for any reason and affects our ability to win new contracts or renew existing ones, we could experience a material revenue decline. Our involvement in partnerships, ventures, and use of subcontractors exposes us to additional legal and market reputation damages. Our methods of service delivery include the use of partnerships, subcontractors, joint ventures and other ventures. If our partners or subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform their obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be unable to adequately perform or deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. Additionally, we may be exposed to claims for damages that are a result of a partner’s or subcontractor’s performance. We could also suffer contract termination and damage to our reputation as a result of a partner’s or subcontractor’s performance. We are engaged in highly competitive markets that pose challenges to continued revenue growth. Our business is characterized by competition for contracts within the government and private sectors in which service contracts are typically awarded through competitive bidding processes. We compete with a large number of other service providers who offer the principal services we offer. In this competitive environment, we must provide technical proficiency, quality of service, and experience to ensure future contract awards and revenue and profit growth. Our international business operations are subject to unique risks and challenges that create increased uncertainty in these markets. Our international operations are subject to unique risks. These risks can include: potentially dynamic political and economic environments; civil disturbances, unrest, or violence; volatile labor conditions due to strikes and general difficulties in staffing international operations with highly qualified personnel; and logistical and communication challenges. Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in foreign countries as well as inconsistent regulations, diverse licensing, and legal and tax requirements that differ from one country to another could also adversely affect our international projects. We also could be subject to exposure to liability due to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our goodwill or other intangible assets could become impaired and result in a material reduction in our profits. We have made acquisitions which have resulted in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets within our organization. Our goodwill balance of each reporting unit, as defined by SFAS 142, is evaluated for potential impairment during the second quarter of each year and in certain other - 11 - Table of Contents circumstances. Reporting units for purposes of this test are identical to our operating segments. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current fair value of the business to the recorded value, including goodwill. To determine the fair value of the business, we utilize both the “Income Approach,” which is based on estimates of future net cash flows and the “Market Approach,” which observes transactional evidence involving similar businesses. If these assets become impaired, a material write-off in the required amount could lead to reductions in our profits. We use “percentage-of-completion” accounting methods for many of our projects. This method may result in volatility in stated revenues and profits. Our revenues and profits for many of our contracts are recognized ratably as those contracts are performed. This rate is based primarily on the proportion of labor costs incurred to date to total labor costs projected to be incurred for the entire project. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenues and profit to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed and the amounts of any probable unapproved change orders. Our failure to accurately estimate these often subjective factors could result in reduced profits or losses for certain contracts. Our government contracts may give the government the right to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion. Therefore, our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments, delays and cancellations. We cannot assure that our funded or unfunded backlog will be realized as revenues or that, if realized, it will result in profits. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time prior to project execution and, once project execution begins, revenues may occur unevenly over current and future periods. In addition, our ability to earn revenues from our backlog depends on the availability of funding for various U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government agencies. In addition, most of our domestic and international industrial clients have termination for convenience provisions in their contracts. Therefore, project terminations, suspensions or reductions in scope may occur from time to time with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. Project cancellations, delays and scope adjustments could further reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenues and profits that we actually earn. We are not insured for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating income and profitability. We are self-insured or carry deductibles for most of our claims exposure. Because of these deductibles and self-insured retention amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase in the future. Under certain conditions, we may elect or be required to increase our self-insured or deductible amounts, which would increase our already significant exposure to expense from claims. If any claim exceeds our coverage, we would bear the excess expense, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. If the frequency or severity of claims or our expenses increase, our operating income and profitability could be materially adversely affected. - 12 - Table of Contents Foreign governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our foreign operations are subject to governmental regulations in the countries in which we operate, including regulations relating to currency conversion, repatriation of earnings, taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel, the increasing requirement in some countries to make greater use of local employees and suppliers, including, in some jurisdictions, mandates that provide for greater local participation in the ownership and control of certain local business assets. Our operations are also subject to the risk of changes in laws and policies which may impose restrictions on our business, including trade restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future operations and earnings may be adversely affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in, or new interpretations of, existing regulations, and the impact of these changes could be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. With respect to comments received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission on our periodic and current reports required under the Securities Act of 1933, no staff comments currently remain unresolved. 