Item 1A. Risk Factors Demand for Land-Based Seismic Data Is Not Assured Demand for our services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities, as well as on the number of crews conducting land, transition zone and marine seismic data acquisition worldwide. The levels of such spending are influenced by: o oil and gas prices and industry perceptions of future price levels; o the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; o the availability of current geophysical data; o the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; and o local and international political and economic conditions. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry has a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, prices of oil and gas, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated substantially. This has, in the past, and may, in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations. Loss of Significant Customers Will Adversely Affect Us We typically lease and sell significant amounts of seismic equipment to a relatively small number of customers, the composition of which changes from year to year as leases are initiated and concluded and as customers’ equipment needs vary. Therefore, at any one time, a large portion of our revenues may be derived from a limited number of customers. In the fiscal years ended January 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, the single largest customer accounted for approximately 11%, 10% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Because our customer base is relatively small, the loss of one or more customers for any reason could adversely affect our results of operations. Significant Defaults of Past-Due Customer Accounts Would Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations On January 31, 2006, we had approximately $9.7 million of customer accounts and notes receivable of which $2.3 million was over 90 days past due. At January 31, 2006 we had an allowance of $1.2 million to cover losses in our receivable balances. Significant payment defaults by our customers in excess of the allowance would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. International Economic and Political Instability Could Adversely Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are dependent upon the current political and economic climate of several countries in which our customers either operate or are located. International sources (including Canada) accounted for approximately 73% of our revenues in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006. Since the majority of our lease and sales contracts with our customers are denominated in U.S., Australian, Canadian and Singapore dollars and British pounds, there is some risk of economic loss from fluctuations in foreign currencies. However, our internationally-sourced revenues are still subject to the risk of currency exchange controls (in which payment could not be made in U.S. dollars), taxation policies, and expropriation, as well as to political turmoil, civil disturbances, armed hostilities, and other hazards. 9 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Have Increasingly Materially Affected Our Results of Operations For accounting purposes, balance sheet accounts of the Canadian, Australian, United Kingdom, Singapore and Russian subsidiaries are translated at the current exchange rate as of the end of the accounting period. Statement of operations items are translated at average currency exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity. This translation adjustment has become material because of the significant amount of equipment assigned to our Canadian and Australian operations and the fluctuations in the Canadian and Australian dollar exchange rates over the last few years. Our Operations and Financial Condition Would Be Materially Adversely Affected if We Are Unable to Continually Obtain Additional Lease Contracts Our seismic equipment leases typically have a term of three to nine months and provide gross revenues that recover only a portion of our capital investment on the initial lease. Our ability to generate lease revenues and profits is dependent on obtaining additional lease contracts after the termination of an original lease. However, lessees are under no obligation to, and frequently do not, continue to lease seismic equipment after the expiration of a lease. Although we have been successful in obtaining additional lease contracts with other customers after the termination of the original leases, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. Our failure to obtain additional leases or extensions beyond the initial lease term would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We Depend on Key Personnel Our success is dependent on, among other things, the services of certain key personnel, including specifically Billy F. Mitcham, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Pinnington, our Managing Director of Seamap (UK) and Mr. Mark Welker, our Managing Director of Seamap Pte Ltd. Mr. Mitcham’s employment agreement is automatically renewed on a year-to-year basis until terminated by either party giving 30 days notice prior to the end of the current term (subject to earlier termination on certain stated events). The agreement prohibits Mr. Mitcham from engaging in any business activities that are competitive with our business and from diverting any of our customers to a competitor for two years after the termination of his employment. Both Mr. Pinnington and Mr. Welker have a five-year employment agreement with the Company effective July 2005 that prohibits them from engaging in a similar business as the Company for a period of seven years, should they leave employment of the Company. The loss of the services of Mr. Mitcham, Mr. Pinnington or Mr. Welker could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our Seismic Lease Pool is Subject to Technological Obsolescence We have a substantial capital investment in seismic data acquisition equipment. The development by manufacturers of seismic equipment of newer technology systems or component parts that have significant competitive advantages over seismic systems and component parts now in use could have an adverse effect on our ability to profitably lease and sell our existing seismic equipment. Significant improvements in technology may also require us to recognize an asset impairment charge to our lease pool investment, and to correspondingly invest significant sums to upgrade or replace our existing lease pool with newer-technology equipment demanded by our customers. Weather Conditions Cause Seasonal Fluctuations in Our Operating Results The first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year have historically accounted for a greater portion of our revenues than do our second and third quarters. This seasonality in leasing revenues is primarily due to the increased seismic survey activity in Canada from January through March or April. This seasonal pattern may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indicative of future results. 10 Table of Contents We Face Competition in Our Seismic Equipment Leasing Activities We have several competitors engaged in seismic equipment leasing and sales, including seismic equipment manufacturers and data acquisition contractors that use seismic equipment, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than us. We believe that our competitors, in general, have neither as extensive a seismic equipment lease pool as we do, or similar exclusive lease referral agreements with suppliers. Competition exists to a lesser extent from seismic data acquisition contractors that may lease equipment that is temporarily idle. There are also several smaller competitors that, in the aggregate, generate significant revenue from the sale of seismic survey equipment. Pressures from existing or new competitors could adversely affect our business operations. We Rely on a Small Number of Suppliers and Disruption in Vendor Supplies Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations We purchase the majority of our seismic equipment for our lease pool from a small number of suppliers. We believe we have satisfactory relationships with our suppliers. However, should those relationships deteriorate, we may have difficulty in obtaining new technology required by our customers and maintaining the existing equipment in accordance with manufacturers’ specifications. In addition, we may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet our lease commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key products and increases in product costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these could adversely affect our future results of operations. Our Stock Price is Subject to Volatility Due to recent energy industry conditions, energy and energy service company stock prices, including our stock price, have been extremely volatile. Such stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing. Possible Adverse Effect of Anti-Takeover Provisions; Potential Issuance of Preferred Stock Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Texas Business Corporation Act may tend to delay, defer or prevent a potential unsolicited offer or takeover attempt that is not approved by our Board of Directors but that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest, including an attempt that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Because our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock with such preferences and rights as it determines, it may afford the holders of any series of preferred stock preferences, rights or voting powers superior to those of the holders of common stock. Although we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding and no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 