Risk Factors Demand for Seismic Data Is Not Assured Demand for our services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities, as well as on the number of crews conducting land, transition zone and marine seismic data acquisition worldwide. The levels of such spending are influenced by: • oil and gas prices and industry expectations of future price levels; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the availability of current geophysical data; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; and • local and international political and economic conditions. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry can have a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, oil and gas prices, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated significantly. These fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations. Loss of Significant Customers Will Adversely Affect Us We typically lease and sell significant amounts of seismic equipment to a relatively small number of customers, the composition of which changes from year to year as leases are initiated and concluded and as customers’ equipment needs vary. Therefore, at any one time, a large portion of our revenues may be derived from a limited number of customers. In the fiscal years ended January 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our single largest customer accounted for approximately 8%, 10% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Because our customer base is relatively small, the loss of one or more customers for any reason could adversely affect our results of operations. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 29% of our consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2007. Industry Consolidation Could Adversely Affect Us There has recently been considerable consolidation among certain of our customers and this trend may continue. This consolidation could result in the loss of our customers and/or could result in a decrease in the demand for our equipment. Significant Defaults of Past-Due Customer Accounts Would Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations On January 31, 2007, we had approximately $16.1 million of customer accounts and notes receivable, of which $4.0 million was over 90 days past due. At January 31, 2007, we had an allowance of approximately $1.2 million to cover losses in our receivable balances. Significant payment defaults by our customers in excess of the allowance would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. International Economic and Political Instability Could Adversely Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are dependent upon the current political and economic climate of several countries in which our customers either operate or are located. International sources of revenues (including Canada) accounted for approximately 76% of our revenues in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2007. Many of our operations are conducted in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Those currencies include the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar and the British pound sterling. In the future, we may also conduct significant business in the Russian ruble. Therefore, we are subject to risks from fluctuations in the value of those currencies. Our internationally-sourced revenues are also subject to the risk of currency exchange controls (in which payment could not be made in U.S. dollars), taxation policies, and expropriation, as well as to political turmoil, civil disturbances, armed hostilities, and other geopolitical hazards. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Have Increasingly Materially Affected Our Financial Statements For accounting purposes, balance sheet accounts of our operating subsidiaries are translated at the current exchange rate as of the end of the accounting period. Statement of operations items are translated at average currency exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity. This translation adjustment has in the past, and may in the 9 Table of Contents future be, material because of the significant amount of assets held by our international subsidiaries and the fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates. Our Operations and Financial Condition Will Be Materially Adversely Affected if We Are Unable to Continually Obtain Additional Lease Contracts Our seismic equipment leases typically have a term of three to six months and provide gross revenues that recover only a portion of our capital investment on the initial lease. Our ability to generate lease revenues and profits is dependent on obtaining additional lease contracts after the termination of an original lease. However, lease customers are under no obligation to, and frequently do not, continue to lease seismic equipment after the expiration of a lease. Although we have been successful in obtaining additional lease contracts with other customers after the termination of the original leases we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. Our failure to obtain additional leases or extensions beyond the initial lease term would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our Failure to Retain Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations Our success is dependent on, among other things, the services of certain key personnel, including specifically Billy F. Mitcham, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Pinnington, our Managing Director of Seamap (UK) and Mr. Mark Welker, our Managing Director of Seamap Pte Ltd. The loss of the services of Mr. Mitcham, Mr. Pinnington or Mr. Welker could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Seismic Lease Pool is Subject to Technological Obsolescence We have a substantial capital investment in seismic data acquisition equipment. The development by manufacturers of seismic equipment of newer technology systems or component parts that have significant competitive advantages over seismic systems and component parts now in use could have an adverse effect on our ability to profitably lease and sell our existing seismic equipment. Significant improvements in technology may also require us to recognize an asset impairment charge to our lease pool investment, and to correspondingly invest significant sums to upgrade or replace our existing lease pool with newer-technology equipment demanded by our customers. Weather Conditions Cause Seasonal Fluctuations in Our Operating Results The first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year have historically accounted for a greater portion of our lease revenues than do our second and third quarters. This seasonality in leasing revenues is primarily due to the increased seismic survey activity in Canada and Russia from January through March or April. This seasonal pattern may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indicative of future results. We Face Competition in Our Seismic Equipment Leasing Activities We have several competitors engaged in seismic equipment leasing and sales, including seismic equipment manufacturers and data acquisition contractors that use seismic equipment, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than us. Competition exists to a lesser extent from seismic data acquisition contractors that may lease equipment that is temporarily idle. There are also several smaller competitors that, in the aggregate, generate significant revenue from the sale of seismic survey equipment. Pressures from existing or new competitors could adversely affect our business operations. We Rely on a Small Number of Suppliers and Disruption in Vendor Supplies Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations We purchase the majority of our seismic equipment for our lease pool from a small number of suppliers. We believe we have satisfactory relationships with our suppliers. However, should those relationships deteriorate, we may have difficulty in obtaining new technology required by our customers and maintaining our existing equipment in accordance with manufacturers’ specifications. In addition, we may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet our lease commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key products and increases in product costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these could adversely affect our future results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The Operations of Seamap are Subject to Special Risks The design and manufacturing operations of our Seamap segment are subject to risks not associated with our equipment leasing business. These risks include the following: Risks Associated with Intellectual Property. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our design information, documentation and other proprietary information. These intellectual property protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent wrongful misappropriation of our technology. In addition, these measures will not prevent competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The laws of many foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect proprietary information could result in, among other things, loss of competitive advantage, loss of customer orders and decreased revenues. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired. We may be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes as competition in the marketplace continues to intensify. In the future, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be costly and divert management’s attention from operations. In addition, adverse determinations in such litigation could, among other things: • result in the loss of our proprietary rights to use the technology; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; • require us to redesign the products that use the technology; or • prevent manufacturing or sale of our products that incorporate the technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend ourselves against the claims of others could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may not ultimately be successful. Risks Related to Product Performance. The production of new products with high technology content involves occasional problems while the technology and manufacturing methods mature. If significant reliability or quality problems develop, including those due to faulty components, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • costs associated with reworking the manufacturing processes; • high service and warranty expenses; • high inventory obsolescence expense; • high levels of product returns; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • reduced orders from existing customers; and • declining interest from potential customers. Although we maintain accruals for product warranties, actual costs could exceed these amounts. From time to time, there will be interruptions or delays in the activation of products at a customer’s site. These interruptions or delays may result from product performance problems or from aspects of the installation and activation activities, some of which are outside our control. If we experience significant interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, confidence in our products could be undermined, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to Raw Materials. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components of our products, as well as for equipment used to design and test our products. Certain components used in our products are only available from a sole source or limited number of vendors. If these suppliers were to limit or reduce the sale of such components to us, or if these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or other problems that prevented them from supplying us with the necessary components, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sole source and other suppliers are each subject to quality and performance issues, materials shortages, excess demand, reduction in capacity and other factors that may disrupt the flow of goods to us; thereby adversely affecting our business and 11 Table of Contents customer relationships. Some of the sole source and limited source vendors are companies who, from time to time, may allocate parts to equipment manufacturers due to market demand for components and equipment. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. Many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations from these shared vendors, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply unreliable for these components. If our supply arrangements are interrupted, we cannot assure you that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely or satisfactory basis. Any delay in component availability for any of our products could result in delays in deployment of these products and in our ability to recognize revenues. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components from alternative sources, reduced supplies and higher prices of components will significantly limit our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers. A delay in receiving certain components or the inability to receive certain components could harm our customer relationships and our results of operations. Failures of components affect the reliability and performance of our products, can reduce customer confidence in our products, and may adversely affect our financial performance. From time to time, we may experience delays in receipt of components and may receive components that do not perform according to their specifications. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could harm our business. In addition, a consolidation among suppliers of these components or adverse developments in their businesses that affect their ability to meet our supply demands could adversely impact the availability of components that we depend on. Delayed deliveries from these sources could adversely affect our business. Our Stock Price is Subject to Volatility Energy and energy service company stock prices, including our stock price, have been extremely volatile from time to time. Stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing. Possible Adverse Effect of Anti-Takeover Provisions; Potential Issuance of Preferred Stock Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Texas Business Corporation Act may tend to delay, defer or prevent a potential unsolicited offer or takeover attempt that is not approved by our Board of Directors but that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest, including an attempt that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Because our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock with preferences and rights as it determines, it may afford the holders of any series of preferred stock preferences, rights or voting powers superior to those of the holders of common stock. Although we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding and no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 