Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional factors that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included under “Cautionary Statements About Forward-Looking Statements” of this Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. If economic conditions weaken or commodity prices become depressed or decline, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, the demand for our products and services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by oil and gas companies. During the period of depressed commodity prices, such as that experienced in late 2008 and 2009, many oil and gas exploration and production companies significantly reduced their levels of capital spending, including amounts dedicated to the leasing or purchasing our seismic equipment. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, among other things: • the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, for oil and natural gas; • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • the rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves and the decline of existing oil and gas reserves; • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing oil and natural gas; • the ability of exploration and production companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital for exploration, development and production operations; • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption; • government policies, including environmental regulations and tax policies, regarding the exploration for, production and development of oil and natural gas reserves and the use of fossil fuels and alternative energy sources; and • weather conditions, including large-scale weather events such as hurricanes that impact oil and gas operations over a wide area or impact prices. A return of depressed commodity prices, or a decline in existing commodity prices, could adversely affect demand for the services and equipment we provide, and therefore adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Further, perceptions of a long-term decrease in commodity prices by oil and gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our statement of financial position if they are determined to cause impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets or of our other long-lived assets. 11 Table of Contents Demand for seismic data is not assured. Demand for our services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, production and development activities, as well as on the number of crews conducting land, transition zone and marine seismic data acquisition worldwide. The levels of such spending are influenced by: • oil and gas prices and industry expectations of future price levels; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the availability of current geophysical data; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital for exploration operations; • the granting of leases or exploration concessions and the expiration of such rights; • changes to existing laws and regulations; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers; • expected rates of declining current production; • technical advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and monsoons that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic acquisition surveys; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; and • local and international political and economic conditions. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry can have a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated significantly. These fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and natural gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in a given financial period. Projects awarded to and scheduled by our customers can be delayed or cancelled due to factors that are outside of their control, which can affect the demand for our products and services. These factors include the following: • inclement weather conditions; • difficulties in obtaining permits and licenses; • labor or political unrest; • delays in obtaining land access rights; • availability of required equipment; • security concerns; • budgetary or financial issues of oil and gas companies; and • delays in payments to our customers from their oil and gas company clients. 12 Table of Contents A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of one of these customers could harm our results of operations. We typically lease and sell significant amounts of seismic equipment to a relatively small number of customers, the composition of which changes from year to year as leases are initiated and concluded and as customers’ equipment needs vary. Therefore, at any one time, a large portion of our revenues may be derived from a limited number of customers. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, CGV, our single largest customer, accounted for approximately 23%, 17% and 19%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Together, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2013. There has been consolidation among certain of our customers and this trend may continue. This consolidation could result in the loss of one or more of our customers and could result in a decrease in the demand for our equipment. The financial soundness of our customers could materially affect our business and operating results. If our customers experience financial difficulties or their own customers delay payment to them, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Disruptions in the financial markets, such as those that occurred in 2008, or other macro-economic issues could exacerbate financial difficulties for our customer. Any inability of customers to pay us for services could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of January 31, 2013, we had approximately $28.6 million of customer accounts and contracts receivable, of which approximately $10.2 million was over 90 days past due. For fiscal 2012 and 2011 we had net charges of approximately $0.6 million and $1.8 million, respectively, to our provision for doubtful accounts. In fiscal 2013 we experienced recoveries of amounts previously considered uncollectable. Significant payment defaults by our customers in excess of the allowance would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. Many of our foreign operations are conducted in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Those currencies include the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar, the Russian ruble and the British pound sterling. These internationally-sourced revenues are subject to the risk of taxation policies, expropriation, political turmoil, civil disturbances, armed hostilities, and other geopolitical hazards as well as foreign currency exchange controls (in which payment could not be made in U.S. dollars) and fluctuations. For example, for accounting purposes, balance sheet accounts of our operating subsidiaries are translated at the current exchange rate as of the end of the accounting period. Statement of operations items are translated at average currency exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity. This translation adjustment has in the past been, and may in the future be, material because of the significant amount of assets held by our international subsidiaries and the fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks. We conduct operations on a global scale. For fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 approximately 78%, 76% and 84%, respectively, of our revenues were attributable to operations in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: • government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets; 13 Table of Contents • difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; • import/export quotas; • civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses; • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and • terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our personnel; • political and economic uncertainties in certain countries which cause delays or cancellation of oil and gas exploration projects; and • environmental concerns and regulations in some countries. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Certain of the seismic equipment that we use in certain foreign countries may require prior U.S. government approval in the form of an export license and may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions. The delay in obtaining required governmental approvals could affect our ability to timely commence a project, and the failure to comply with all such controls could result in fines and other penalties. We are subject to taxation in many foreign jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could negatively affect our profitability. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act of 2010 (the “UK Bribery Act”), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with these laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to them. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or partners have violated the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial 14 Table of Contents civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in such foreign markets could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act, which became effective in 2011, is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception. Capital requirements for our operations can be large. If we are unable to finance these requirements, we may not be able to maintain our competitive advantage. We have historically funded our working capital requirements with cash generated from operations, cash reserves, issuance of common stock and short-term borrowings from commercial banks. Our working capital requirements continue to increase, primarily due to the expansion of our infrastructure in response to client demand for more recording channels, which has increased as the industry strives for improved data quality with greater subsurface resolution images. If we were to expand our operations at a rate exceeding operating cash flow, or current demand or pricing of our services were to decrease substantially or if technical advances or competitive pressures required us to acquire new equipment faster than our cash flow could sustain, additional financing could be required. Access to global financial markets and the terms under which capital is available can be uncertain and volatile. This was evident during the global financial crisis that arose in 2008. Furthermore, due to the historically cyclical nature of the energy business in general, and the seismic industry in particular, capital for businesses in this industry can be even more difficult and expensive to obtain. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if and when needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to continually obtain additional lease contracts. Our seismic equipment leases typically have a term of two to six months and provide gross revenues that recover only a portion of our capital investment on the initial lease. Our ability to generate lease revenues and profits is dependent on obtaining additional lease contracts after the termination of an original lease. However, lease customers are under no obligation to, and frequently do not, continue to lease seismic equipment after the expiration of a lease. Although we have been successful in obtaining additional lease contracts with other customers after the termination of the original leases, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. Our failure to obtain additional leases or extensions beyond the initial lease term would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on, among other things, the services of certain key personnel, including specifically Billy F. Mitcham, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Mitcham or other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The high fixed costs of our operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business has high fixed costs, which primarily consist of depreciation expenses associated with our lease pool of seismic data acquisition equipment. In periods of significant downtime these fixed costs do not decline as rapidly as our revenues. As a result, any significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our long-lived assets may be subject to impairment. We periodically assess our long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets and our lease pool of equipment, for impairment. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of these assets if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related assets falls below net book value. Declines in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If we are forced to write down the value of our long-lived assets, these noncash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See the discussion included in Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Long-Lived Assets.” Our seismic lease pool is subject to technological obsolescence. We have a substantial capital investment in seismic data acquisition equipment. The development by manufacturers of seismic equipment of newer technology systems or component parts that have significant competitive advantages over seismic systems and component parts now in use could have an adverse effect on our ability to profitably lease and sell our existing seismic equipment. Significant improvements in technology may also require us to recognize an asset impairment charge to our lease pool investment and to correspondingly invest significant sums to upgrade or replace our existing lease pool with newer-technology equipment demanded by our customers, which could affect our ability to compete as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Recently, seismic equipment manufacturers have introduced wireless, or cable-free, recording systems. Many seismic contractors believe that wireless recording systems offer significant operational advantages over traditional cable-based systems, particularly in certain environments. Some seismic contractors have made significant investment in wireless technology and have replaced much of their cable-based equipment. Should other contractors take this approach, it could accelerate the obsolescence of much of our lease pool of equipment. As of January 31, 2013 we have approximately 231,000 channels of ground recording equipment in our lease pool, of which approximately 27,000 channels are wireless, or cable-free, systems, manufactured by Sercel and Geospace. Historically, there have been three major seismic equipment suppliers, Sercel, Inova and Geospace. Each of these companies currently offer wireless recording systems. However, we believe that at least five other companies are currently offering or developing similar products. Should one of the competing systems gain wide-spread acceptance among seismic contractors, it could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our current lease pool of equipment. There can be no assurance that we would be able to acquire the types of equipment that would then be in demand by our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Seasonal conditions cause fluctuations in our operating results. The first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year have historically accounted for a greater portion of our lease revenues than do our second and third quarters. This seasonality in leasing revenues is primarily due to the increased seismic survey activity in Canada and Russia from January through March or April. This seasonal pattern may cause our results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indicative of future results. We face competition in our seismic equipment leasing activities. We have several competitors engaged in seismic equipment leasing and sales, including seismic equipment manufacturers and data acquisition contractors that use seismic equipment, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than our own. There are also several smaller competitors that, in the aggregate, generate significant revenues from the lease and sale of seismic survey equipment. Pressures from existing or new competitors could adversely affect our business operations. 16 Table of Contents We rely on a small number of suppliers and disruption in vendor supplies could adversely affect our results of operations. We purchase the majority of our seismic equipment for our lease pool from a small number of suppliers. Should our relationships with our suppliers deteriorate, we may have difficulty in obtaining new technology required by our customers and maintaining our existing equipment in accordance with manufacturers’ specifications. In addition, we may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet our lease commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key products and increases in product costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these events could adversely affect our future results of operations. The majority of our lease pool equipment is produced by Sercel and has been acquired by us pursuant to a series of agreements, see Item 1 – “Business – Key Supplier Agreements.” For fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 32%, 44% and 35%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the rental of products we acquired from Sercel. If we are not able to continue our past relationship with Sercel we may not be able to acquire equipment under terms as favorable as in the past, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. Equipment in our lease pool may be subject to the intellectual property claims of others that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from the lease of the equipment. Certain of the equipment in our lease pool is proprietary to us. The equipment we acquired with the acquisition of AES, see Item 1 – “Business,” includes heli-pickers and associated equipment that is manufactured by AES and is subject to various patents, see Item 1 – “Business – Intellectual Property.” We also have some equipment in our lease pool that is manufactured by our Seamap segment, which is subject to intellectual property rights and protection as discussed below. We may be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes as competition in the marketplace continues to intensify. In the future, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be costly and divert management’s attention from operations. In addition, adverse determinations in such litigation could, among other things: • result in the loss of our proprietary rights to use the technology; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; and • prevent us from leasing or selling our products that incorporate the technology. Additionally, the equipment that we acquire from other suppliers may be subject to the intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. We generally are indemnified by our suppliers against any claims that may be brought against us by third parties related to equipment they sold to us. However, such claims could affect our ability to acquire additional such products or to lease them in the future. The loss of this future revenue could adversely affect our business and would not generally be covered by the indemnities from our suppliers. In February 2011, ION obtained a judgment against Sercel as a result of a patent infringement suit. In February 2012 this judgment was affirmed by the appellate court. One aspect of the judgment restricts the importation and use of certain seismic equipment in the United States, including Sercel’s 428XL DSU3 products. We currently own a significant amount of this equipment and may purchase additional amounts from Sercel or others in the future. We believe that a significant portion of this equipment that we currently own is not subject to any restrictions as to use in the United States. However, if we are unable to import into or use in the United States any portion of this equipment our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete for certain projects located in the United States. In addition, the administrative and operational effort required to ensure that no restricted equipment is brought into the United States may cause our costs to increase. 17 Table of Contents In August 2012, ION was found guilty of patent infringement in a suit brought against it by WesternGeco L.L.C. The matters at issue in this case involve certain technology used to steer marine streamers and certain products manufactured and sold by ION. We own at least one of these products in our lease pool. It is our understanding that this verdict, if upheld upon any appeal, could negatively impact the ability of our customers to utilize the technology at issue and therefore could have an adverse effect on the demand for the related products in our lease pool. The operations of Seamap are subject to special risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The design and manufacturing operations of our Seamap segment are subject to risks not associated with our equipment leasing business. These risks include the following: Risks Associated with Intellectual Property. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners and control access to and distribution of our design information, documentation and other proprietary information. These intellectual property protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent wrongful misappropriation of our technology. In addition, these measures will not prevent competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. The laws of many foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect proprietary information could result in, among other things, loss of competitive advantage, loss of customer orders and decreased revenues. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired. We may be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes as competition in the marketplace continues to intensify. In the future, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be costly and divert management’s attention from operations. In addition, adverse determinations in such litigation could, among other things: • result in the loss of our proprietary rights to use the technology; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; • require us to redesign the products that use the technology; and • prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products that incorporate the technology. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or to defend ourselves against the claims of others could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may not ultimately be successful. Risks Related to Product Performance. The production of new products with high technology content involves occasional problems while the technology and manufacturing methods mature. If significant reliability or quality problems develop, including those due to faulty components, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including: • costs associated with reworking the manufacturing processes; • high service and warranty expenses; • high inventory obsolescence expense; 18 Table of Contents • high levels of product returns; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • reduced orders from existing customers; and • declining interest from potential customers. Although we maintain accruals for product warranties, actual costs could exceed these amounts. From time to time, there may be interruptions or delays in the activation of products at a customer’s site. These interruptions or delays may result from product performance problems or from aspects of the installation and activation activities, some of which are outside our control. If we experience significant interruptions or delays that cannot be promptly resolved, confidence in our products could be undermined, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to Raw Materials. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components of our products, as well as for equipment used to design and test our products. Certain components used in our products may be available from a sole source or limited number of vendors. If these suppliers were to limit or reduce the sale of such components to us, or if these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or other problems that prevented them from supplying us with the necessary components, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sole source and other suppliers are each subject to quality and performance issues, materials shortages, excess demand, reduction in capacity and other factors that may disrupt the flow of goods to us; thereby adversely affecting our business and customer relationships. Some of the sole source and limited source vendors are companies who, from time to time, may allocate parts to equipment manufacturers due to market demand for components and equipment. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. Many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations from these shared vendors, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply unreliable for these components. If our supply arrangements are interrupted, we cannot assure you that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely or satisfactory basis. Any delay in component availability for any of our products could result in delays in deployment of these products and in our ability to recognize revenues. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components from alternative sources, reduced supplies and higher prices of components will significantly limit our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to customers. A delay in receiving certain components or the inability to receive certain components could harm our customer relationships and our results of operations. Failures of components affect the reliability and performance of our products, can reduce customer confidence in our products, and may adversely affect our financial performance. From time to time, we may experience delays in receipt of components and may receive components that do not perform according to their specifications. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in delays or reductions in product shipments that could harm our business. In addition, a consolidation among suppliers of these components or adverse developments in their businesses that affect their ability to meet our supply demands could adversely impact the availability of components that we depend on. Delayed deliveries from these sources could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that could increase our costs of compliance and impose significant liabilities. We are subject to stringent governmental laws and regulations relating to worker safety and health, protection of the environment and the handling of chemicals and materials used in our manufacturing processes as well as the recycling and disposal of wastes generated by those processes. These laws and regulations may impose joint and several strict liability and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory remedial obligations, and 19 Table of Contents issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations. These laws and regulations could require us to acquire permits to conduct regulated activities, install and maintain costly equipment and pollution control technologies, conduct remediation of contaminated soils and groundwater, implement specific health and safety criteria for worker protection, or undertake measures to prevent future contamination or incur other significant environmental-related expenses. Public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. We anticipate that the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations will continue, the occurrence of which may require us to increase our capital expenditures or could result in increased operating expenses, in addition to possibly decreasing the performance of exploration or production activities by energy companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in reduced demand for oil and natural gas, thereby adversely affecting our business, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our manufacturing of seismic equipment and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that establish Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. This stationary source rule “tailors” these permitting programs to apply to certain stationary sources in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG that will be established by the states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. In addition the EPA has adopted regulations requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis. While the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from oil and gas exploration and production activities could have an adverse effect on the demand for our seismic equipment and associated services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could adversely affect or delay our manufacturing of seismic equipment and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our business. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted surface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but the EPA has 20 Table of Contents asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving the use of diesel fuels and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently plans to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations pursuant to the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”). In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in certain formations and adversely affect demand for our seismic equipment and associated services. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results made available on December 21, 2012 and final results expected to be available by 2014, and has further announced plans to develop effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our seismic equipment and associated services. More comprehensive and stringent regulation in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the aftermath of the Macondo well oil spill may result in increased costs and delays in offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production operations, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Following an April 30, 2010 fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and resulting oil spill from the Macondo well operated by a third party in ultra-deep water in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, there have been a series of regulatory initiatives developed and implemented at the federal level to address the direct impact of the incident and to prevent similar incidents in the future. Beginning in 2010 and continuing through 2012, the federal government, acting through the U.S. Department of the Interior (“DOI”) and its implementing agencies that have since evolved into the present day Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (“BOEM”) and Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (“BSEE”), have issued a variety of regulations and Notices to Lessees and Operators (“NTLs”) intended to impose additional safety, permitting and certification requirements applicable to exploration, development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. These regulatory initiatives effectively slowed down the pace of drilling and production operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico as adjustments were being made in operating procedures, certification requirements and lead times for inspections, drilling applications and permits, and exploration and production plan reviews, and as the federal agencies evolved into their present day bureaus. Under the DOI’s current organizational format, the BOEM administers offshore leasing, resource evaluation, oil and natural gas exploration and production plan reviews, renewable energy development, National Environmental Policy Act analyses, and environmental studies whereas the BSEE manages responsibility for the safety and enforcement functions imposed on offshore oil and natural gas operations, including the development and enforcement of safety and environmental regulations, permitting of offshore exploration, development and production activities, inspections, offshore regulatory programs, oil spill response and compliance programing and training. Offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production operators are now required to comply with this more comprehensive and stringent array of legal requirements as conditions to initiating and/or continuing 21 Table of Contents offshore activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, compliance with which has made it more difficult and costly in proceeding with those activities and more prone to potential delays, whether due to permit delays, the aggregate effect of more regulation, the need for new or retrofitted equipment or processes or qualified personnel, or otherwise. In addition to the array of new or revised safety, permitting and certification requirements developed and implemented by the DOI in the past few years, there have been a variety of proposals to change existing laws and regulations that could affect offshore development and production such as, for example, a proposal to significantly increase the minimum financial responsibility demonstration required under the Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”). To the extent that the existing regulatory initiatives implemented and pursued over the past few years or any future restrictions, whether through legislative or regulatory means or increased or broadened enforcement programs, lead to an increase in the cost of operations in offshore waters or foster uncertainties or delays in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, production or development activities, then such conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of our facilities; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. We may grow through acquisitions and our failure to properly plan and manage those acquisitions may adversely affect our performance. We plan to expand not only through organic growth, but may also do so through the strategic acquisition of companies and assets. We must plan and manage any acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to manage acquisitions effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal compliance and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and • our inability to secure sufficient financing, on terms we find acceptable, that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. 22 Table of Contents Our stock price is subject to volatility. Energy and energy service company stock prices, including our stock price, have been volatile from time to time. Stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as depressed prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010; • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans. We have significant operations outside of the United States that expose us to certain additional risks. We operate in a number of foreign locations and have subsidiaries or branches in foreign countries, including Russia, Peru and Colombia. Our equipment is also often temporarily located in other foreign locations while under rent by our customers. These operations expose us to political and economic risks and uncertainties. Should current circumstances change, we could encounter difficulties in operating in some countries and may not be able to retrieve our equipment that is located within these counties. This could result in a material adverse effect on our financial positions and results of operations. Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and Texas law could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares for a premium. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and the Texas Business Organizations Code may tend to delay, defer or prevent a potential unsolicited offer or takeover attempt that is not approved by our Board of Directors but that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interest, including an attempt that might result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Because our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock with preferences and rights as it determines, it may afford the holders of any 23 Table of Contents series of preferred stock preferences, rights or voting powers superior to those of the holders of common stock. Although we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding and no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 