ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes in Part II Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The risks and uncertainties management describes below are the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We expect to incur a net loss for fiscal 2011. If we are unable to generate significant product and licensing revenue in the future, we may never achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and we expect to incur a net loss for fiscal year 2011. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative costs associated with our operations, bankruptcy under Chapter 11 and test development. Our ability to commercialize OVA1 and other potential diagnostic tests is heavily dependent on our strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics. Quest Diagnostics has an exclusive license to offer OVA1 as a clinical laboratory test in the US, Mexico, Britain and India through September 11, 2014, which may be extended for an additional year beyond September 11, 2014. In addition, Quest Diagnostics is expected to have a similar exclusive license with respect to our VASCLIR test for a three year period following clearance by the FDA, as well as with respect to one additional test developed by us, if and to the extent, Quest Diagnostics exercises its development option with respect to any such test on or before October 7, 2012. Consequently, our ability to generate revenue from these tests in these regions is heavily dependent on Quest Diagnostics and its ability to market and offer these tests in its clinical laboratories. 16 Table of Contents We expect that for the foreseeable future nearly all of our revenue will be derived from Quest Diagnostics and will depend on the number of OVA1 tests performed by Quest Diagnostics and the reimbursement rate for performing those tests, which are outside of our control. We expect that nearly all of our revenues for the foreseeable future will be derived through our strategic partnership with Quest Diagnostics and will be based on the number of OVA1 tests performed by Quest Diagnostics and the reimbursement rate received by Quest Diagnostics for those tests. On November 10, 2010, we entered into an Amendment No. 4 to our Strategic Alliance Agreement with Quest Diagnostics (the “Amendment No. 4”). Under the terms of the Amendment, we are to be paid $50 for each OVA1 performed by Quest Diagnostics, as well as a 33% royalty of Quest Diagnostics’ gross margin from performing OVA1. Amendment No. 4 provides for a monthly payment by Quest Diagnostics to us based on Quest Diagnostics’ average reimbursement per OVA1 in the previous month. Under the terms of Amendment No. 4, royalty portion of our revenue is subject to adjustment, either up or down, on an annual basis within 60 days of end of each calendar year based on Quest Diagnostics’ actual reimbursement history for that calendar year. To the extent Quest Diagnostics is not reimbursed, is reimbursed at a lower than expected rate, or has reimbursement claims rejected, the royalty amounts owed to us would be reduced. Any amounts owed by us to Quest Diagnostics will be deducted against payments owed to us in future periods. The number of tests performed by Quest Diagnostics and the amount of reimbursements received by Quest Diagnostics in any given period will be largely outside of our control. If Quest Diagnostics were to perform fewer tests or receive less reimbursement per test than expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. How we will recognize future revenue under the Quest Diagnostics Strategic Alliance Agreement remains uncertain and is likely to change, which could affect our revenue in future periods. As described in detail above, Amendment No. 4 changed the structure and calculation of the payment to be received by us from Quest Diagnostics relating to OVA1. Given our limited commercialization history with OVA1, our lack of experience with the new payment terms contained in Amendment No. 4 and our inability to know or control Quest Diagnostics’ reimbursement rates for OVA1, it may be difficult for us to estimate the amount of the future royalties and the size of any year-end adjustment. It is likely that we will be unable to recognize some or all of the revenue from the royalty payments to be received from Quest Diagnostics until we are better able to estimate the final royalty payment amounts and the magnitude and effect of the annual recalculation and adjustment mechanism. Accordingly, the amount of revenue we will be able to recognize in any quarter could vary significantly, and the method used to calculate that revenue could be subject to change. Failures to reimburse OVA1 or changes in reimbursement rates by third party payers and variances in reimbursement rates could materially and adversely affect our revenues and could result in significant fluctuations in our revenues. A significant portion of our revenues are dependent on the amount Quest Diagnostics receives from third party payers for performing OVA1. Insurance coverage and reimbursement rates for diagnostic tests are uncertain, subject to change and particularly volatile during the early stages of a newly commercialized diagnostic test. OVA1 was commercially launched in March of 2010. There remain questions as to what extent third party payers, like Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies will provide coverage for OVA1 and for which indications. Quest Diagnostics will likely experience volatility in the coverage and reimbursement of OVA1 due to contract negotiation with third party payers and implementation requirements. Quest Diagnostics has advised us that the reimbursement amounts it has received from third party payers varies from payer to payer, and, in some cases, the variation is material. Third party payers, including private insurance companies as well as government payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the diagnostic test industry. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes to the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation, and pricing for tests covered by Medicare is subject to change at any time. Reductions in the reimbursement rate of payers may occur in the future. Reductions in the price at which OVA1 is reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on our 17 Table of Contents revenues. If we and Quest Diagnostics working collaboratively are unable to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for OVA1 or if third party payers change their coverage or reimbursement policies with respect to OVA1, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future beyond what we have raised in a follow-on public offering on February 18, 2011, and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. On February 18, 2011, we completed a follow-on public offering of our common stock in which we issued an additional 4 million shares and raised $20.2 million in net proceeds. We believe that our current cash resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional capital beyond what we have raised in the follow-on public offering in order to develop new or enhanced products or services, increase our efforts to discover biomarkers and develop them into diagnostic products, or acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. We may seek to raise additional capital beyond what we have raised in the follow-on offering through the issuance of equity or debt securities, or a combination thereof, in the public or private markets, or through a collaborative arrangement or sale of assets. Additional financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for our business. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in such a financing may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations, through debt covenants or other restrictions. If we obtain additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or strategic partners, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain technologies or products that we might otherwise seek to retain. If adequate and acceptable financing is not available to us at the time that we seek to raise additional capital, our ability to execute our business plan successfully may be negatively impacted. Leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our consolidated cash flows. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5,000,000 of outstanding principal of our 7.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the “7.00% Notes”) and $7,000,000 outstanding under our secured line of credit with Quest Diagnostics. Quest Diagnostics provided us with a $10,000,000 secured line of credit, which was forgivable based upon the achievement of certain milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of certain diagnostic tests. As of our emergence from bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Code, certain milestones had been met and the principal balance of the secured line of credit was reduced to $7,000,000. We are in discussions with Quest Diagnostics regarding the achievement of an additional $1,000,000 forgiveness milestone related to OVA1 under the terms of the Amended Strategic Alliance Agreement. The $7,000,000 secured line of credit is secured by our assets, and is senior to the outstanding $5,000,000 of the 7.00% Notes. As a result of this indebtedness, we have principal and interest payment obligations to Quest Diagnostics. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot meet our debt service obligation, it would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. 18 Table of Contents We may not succeed in developing additional diagnostic products, and, even if we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic products, the diagnostic products may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and commercialize diagnostic products. There is considerable risk in developing diagnostic products based on our biomarker discovery efforts, as candidate biomarkers may fail to validate results in larger clinical studies or may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical accuracy. If we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic tests with acceptable performance characteristics, we may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance for those tests. Our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products, including OVA1, will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their advantages over existing diagnostic products; • our ability to further establish business relationships with other diagnostic or laboratory companies that can assist in the commercialization of these products in the US and globally; and • the scope and extent of the agreement by Medicare and third-party payers to provide full or partial reimbursement coverage for our products, which will affect patients’ willingness to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend or use our products. These factors present obstacles to significant commercial acceptance of our existing and potential diagnostic products, for which we will have to spend substantial time and financial resources to overcome, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Our inability to do so successfully would prevent us from generating revenue from future diagnostic products. The diagnostics market is competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Our principal competition currently comes from the many clinical options available to medical personnel involved in clinical decision making. For example, rather than ordering an OVA1 for a woman with an adnexal mass, obstetricians, gynecologists, and gynecologic oncologists may choose a different clinical option or none at all. If we are not able to convince clinicians that OVA1 provides significant improvement over current clinical practices, our ability to commercialize OVA1 would be adversely affected. In addition, competitors, such as Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc., Becton Dickinson, ArrayIt Corporation, Correlogic Systems, Inc., and Abbott Labs have publicly disclosed that they have been or are currently working on ovarian cancer diagnostic assays. Additionally, academic institutions periodically report new findings in ovarian cancer diagnostics that may have commercial value. Our failure to compete with any competitive diagnostic assay if and when commercialized could adversely affect our business. We have priced OVA1 at a point that recognizes the value-added by its increased sensitivity for ovarian malignancy. If others develop a test that is viewed to be similar to OVA1 in efficacy but is priced at a lower point, we and/or our strategic partners may have to lower the price of OVA1 in order to effectively compete, which would impact our margins and potential for profitability. The commercialization of our diagnostic tests may be affected adversely by changing FDA regulations, and any delay by or failure of the FDA to approve our diagnostic tests submitted to the FDA may adversely affect our consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA cleared OVA1 on September 11, 2009. Our activities related to diagnostic products are, or have the potential to be, subject to regulatory oversight by the FDA under provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations thereunder, including regulations governing the development, marketing, labeling, promotion, manufacturing and export of our products. Failure to comply with applicable requirements can lead to sanctions, including withdrawal of products from the market, recalls, refusal to authorize government contracts, product seizures, civil money penalties, injunctions and criminal prosecution. 19 Table of Contents The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act requires that medical devices introduced to the United States market, unless exempted by regulation, be the subject of either a pre-market notification clearance, known as a 510(k) clearance or 510(k) de novo clearance, or a PMA. Some of our potential future clinical products may require a 510(k) or 510(k) de novo clearance, while others may require a PMA. With respect to devices reviewed through the 510(k) process, we may not market a device until an order is issued by the FDA finding our product to be substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device known as a predicate device. A 510(k) submission may involve the presentation of a substantial volume of data, including clinical data. The FDA may agree that the product is substantially equivalent to a predicate device and allow the product to be marketed in the United States. On the other hand, the FDA may determine that the device is not substantially equivalent and require a PMA, or require further information, such as additional test data, including data from clinical studies, before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. By requesting additional information, the FDA can delay market introduction of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive any necessary 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, or the imposition of stringent restrictions on the labeling and sales of our products, could have a material adverse effect on us. If the FDA indicates that a PMA is required for any of our potential future clinical products, the application will require extensive clinical studies, manufacturing information and likely review by a panel of experts outside the FDA. Clinical studies to support either a 510(k) submission or a PMA application would need to be conducted in accordance with FDA requirements. Failure to comply with FDA requirements could result in the FDA’s refusal to accept the data or the imposition of regulatory sanctions. We cannot assure that any necessary 510(k) clearance or PMA approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. To the extent we seek FDA 510(k) clearance or FDA pre-market approval for other diagnostic tests, any delay by or failure of the FDA to clear or approve those diagnostic tests may adversely affect our consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements, we may not be able to market our products and services and may be subject to stringent penalties; further improvements to our or our suppliers’ manufacturing operations may be required that could entail additional costs. The commercialization of our products could be delayed, halted or prevented by applicable FDA regulations. If the FDA were to view any of our actions as non-compliant, it could initiate enforcement actions, such as a warning letter and possible imposition of penalties. In addition, analyte specific reagents (“ASRs”) that we may provide would be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations (“QSR”), which establish extensive requirements for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement actions for us or our potential suppliers. Adverse FDA actions in any of these areas could significantly increase our expenses and limit our revenue and profitability. We will need to undertake steps to maintain our operations in line with the FDA’s QSR requirements. Some components of OVA1 are manufactured by other companies and we are required to maintain supply agreements with these companies. If these agreements are not satisfactory to the FDA, we will have to renegotiate these agreements. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our ability to commercialize OVA1. Our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. If and when we begin commercializing and assembling our products by ourselves, our facilities will be subject to the same inspections. We or our suppliers may not satisfy such regulatory requirements, and any such failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our commercialization efforts. If we fail to continue to develop our technologies, we may not be able to successfully foster adoption of our products and services or develop new product offerings. Our technologies are new and complex, and are subject to change as new discoveries are made. New discoveries and advancements in the diagnostic field are essential if we are to foster the adoption of our product offerings. Development of these technologies remains a substantial risk to us due to various factors, including the scientific challenges involved, our ability to find and collaborate successfully with others working in the diagnostic field, and competing technologies, which may prove more successful than our technologies. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our rights to utilize intellectual property directed to diagnostic biomarkers, we may not be able to offer diagnostic tests using those biomarkers. One aspect of our business plan is to develop diagnostic tests based on certain biomarkers, which we have the right to utilize through licenses with our academic collaborators, such as the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Stanford University, and the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. In some cases, our collaborators own the entire right to the biomarkers. In other cases, we co-own the biomarkers with our collaborators. If, for some reason, we lose our license to biomarkers owned entirely by our collaborators, we may not be able to use those biomarkers in diagnostic tests. If we lose our exclusive license to biomarkers co-owned by us and our collaborators, our collaborators may license their share of the intellectual property to a third party that may compete with us in offering diagnostic tests, which would materially adversely affect our consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have $7,000,000 outstanding from the secured line of credit provided by Quest Diagnostics. If we fail to achieve the milestones for the forgiveness of the secured line of credit set forth in our amended credit agreement with Quest Diagnostics, we will be responsible for full repayment of the secured line of credit on October 7, 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we have $7,000,000 outstanding from the secured lined of credit in connection with the Strategic Alliance. Over a two-year period, we borrowed monthly increments of $417,000, totaling $10,000,000, and have paid all interest that was due. Funds from this secured line of credit were used for certain costs and expenses directly related to the Strategic Alliance, with forgiveness of the repayment obligations based upon our achievement of milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of certain diagnostic tests. On October 7, 2009, the Strategic Alliance Agreement was amended to extend the term of the agreement to end on the earlier of (i) October 7, 2012 and (ii) the date on which Quest Diagnostics has commercially launched three licensed tests under the Strategic Alliance. On September 11, 2009, we announced our milestone achievement of clearing OVA1 with the FDA and, effective after the emergence from bankruptcy, reduced our principal obligations under the Amended Strategic Alliance Agreement to $7,000,000. We are in discussions with Quest Diagnostics regarding the achievement of an additional $1,000,000 forgiveness milestone related to OVA1 under the terms of the Amended Strategic Alliance Agreement. Should we fail to achieve the remaining milestones, we would be responsible for the repayment of the outstanding principal amount and any unpaid interest on the secured line of credit on October 7, 2012, which could materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If a competitor infringes on our proprietary rights, we may lose any competitive advantage we may have as a result of diversion of our time, enforcement costs and the loss of the exclusivity of our proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our technology and brand. We have submitted a number of patent applications covering biomarkers that may have diagnostic or therapeutic utility. Our patent applications may or may not result in additional patents being issued. If competitors engage in activities that infringe on our proprietary rights, our focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the competitor is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. We cannot be sure that competitors will not design around our patented technology. We also rely upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, knowledge or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If any 21 Table of Contents trade secret, knowledge or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If others successfully assert their proprietary rights against us, we may be precluded from making and selling our products or we may be required to obtain licenses to use their technology. Our success depends on avoiding infringing on the proprietary technologies of others. If a third party were to assert claims that we are violating their patents, we might incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. Any such lawsuit may not be decided in our favor, and if we are found liable, it may be subject to monetary damages or injunction against using the technology. We may also be required to obtain licenses under patents owned by third parties and such licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes, employment claims made by current or former employees, and claims brought by third parties alleging infringement on their intellectual property rights. In addition, we may bring claims against third parties for infringement on our intellectual property rights. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert our attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. An unfavorable judgment against us in any legal proceeding or claim could require us to pay monetary damages. In addition, an unfavorable judgment in which the counterparty is awarded equitable relief, such as an injunction, could have an adverse impact on our licensing and sublicensing activities, which could harm our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. On July 9, 2007, Molecular Analytical Systems filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California for the County of Santa Clara naming Vermillion and Bio-Rad as defendants (the “State Court lawsuit”). Under the State Court lawsuit, MAS sought an unspecified amount of damages and alleged, among other things, that we are in breach of its license agreement with MAS relating to our SELDI technology as a result of our entry into a sublicense agreement with Bio-Rad. We filed a petition to compel arbitration, which was denied in the trial court. We then filed our general denial and affirmative defenses on April 1, 2008. The Company and Bio-Rad thereafter appealed the denial of the motion to compel arbitration, which appeal had the effect of staying the State Court lawsuit, which stay was further extended in both the state trial and appellate courts when we filed for bankruptcy protection on March 30, 2009, a Voluntary Petition for Relief under Chapter 11 in the Bankruptcy Court. MAS filed a proof of claim on July 15, 2009, in connection with our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. The proof of claim mirrored the MAS lawsuit and asserted that we breached the Exclusive License Agreement by transferring certain technologies to Bio-Rad without obtaining MAS’s consent. MAS listed the value of its claim as in excess of $5,000,000. On December 28, 2009, we objected to MAS’s Proof of Claim in the Bankruptcy Court. On January 7, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed our Plan of Reorganization. Per the Court’s order confirming the Plan, our bankruptcy case will be closed when, along with other requirements, a final, non-appealable judgment is entered on MAS’s claims. After the Plan of Reorganization was confirmed, MAS filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court asking it to abstain from hearing its proof of claim and asked the Bankruptcy Court to grant relief from the automatic stay so that MAS could proceed with the State Court lawsuit in California. Over our objection, the Bankruptcy Court granted that motion on March 16, 2010. Thereafter, the California Court of Appeal set oral argument on our appeal of the trial court order denying our motion to compel arbitration for June 17, 2010. The California Court of Appeals overturned the Superior Court’s decision in an opinion dated July 9, 2010, and ordered that the dispute be arbitrated before the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Service (“JAMS”). MAS filed its demand for arbitration on September 15, 2010. The demand did not include any additional detail regarding MAS’s claims, and submitted the same complaint for unspecified damages that MAS 22 Table of Contents filed in the Superior Court in 2007. The parties have begun to exchange initial disclosures in the arbitration, but JAMS has not yet set a schedule for resolution of MAS’s claims, and management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time. Our failure to meet our purchase commitments pursuant to a manufacture and supply agreement with Bio-Rad could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We are a party to a manufacture and supply agreement with Bio-Rad, dated November 13, 2006, whereby we agreed to purchase from Bio-Rad the ProteinChip Systems and ProteinChip Arrays necessary to support our diagnostics efforts. Under the terms of the agreement, we were required to purchase a specified number of ProteinChip Systems and ProteinChip Arrays in each of the three years following the date of the agreement. Pursuant to a letter from us to Bio-Rad dated May 2, 2008, we exercised our right to terminate the agreement for convenience upon 180 days’ written notice. Consequently, termination of the agreement became effective on October 29, 2008. In our bankruptcy proceeding, Bio-Rad filed a claim for approximately $1,000,000. If we are unable to resolve this claim, it would have an adverse effect on our consolidated cash flows. Because our business is highly dependent on key executives and employees, our inability to recruit and retain these people could hinder our business plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers and certain key employees. Our executive officers and key employees are employed at will by us. Any inability to engage new executive officers or key employees could impact operations or delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization objectives. To continue our research and product development efforts, we need people skilled in areas such as clinical operations, regulatory affairs and clinical diagnostics. Competition for qualified employees is intense. Our diagnostic efforts may cause us to have significant product liability exposure. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic tests entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our existing insurance will have to be increased in the future if we are successful at introducing new diagnostic products and this will increase our costs. In the event that we are held liable for a claim or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make substantial payments. This may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and may increase the volatility of our common stock price. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations, as well as those of the collaborators on which we depend, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire; natural disasters, including earthquakes; computer viruses; human error; power shortages; telecommunication failures; international acts of terror; and similar events. Although we have certain business continuity plans in place, we have not established a formal comprehensive disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate it for losses we may suffer. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are required to comply with the management certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will 23 Table of Contents not be prevented or detected. If we fail to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our consolidated financial statements may be inaccurate, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely affect our future consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations adopted by the SEC, are resulting in increased compliance costs. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and diverting employees’ time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have completed the process of documenting our systems of internal control and have evaluated our systems of internal control. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2004, we have been required to assess continuously our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect to continue to devote the necessary resources, including internal and external resources, to support our assessment. In the future, if we identify one or more material weaknesses, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of our time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay a sales tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. The PPACA also mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. This adjustment is in addition to a productivity adjustment to the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition to the PPACA, the impact of which cannot be predicted given its recent enactment and current lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, a number of states are also contemplating significant reform of their healthcare policies. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation may result in decreased profits to us, and lower reimbursements by payers for our tests, all of which may adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs to remediate hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties affected by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances could adversely affect the value and the ability to transfer or encumber such property. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we 24 Table of Contents believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Risks Related to Owning our Stock The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock may be low. The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock has at times been low in the past and may again be low in the future. If the liquidity and trading volume were to fall, this could impact the trading price of our shares and adversely affect our ability to issue stock and for holders to obtain liquidity in their shares should they desire to sell. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • failure to significantly increase revenue; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements or introductions of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • publicity regarding actual or potential discoveries of biomarkers by others; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions and divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors; • litigation or threat of litigation; • additions or departures of key personnel; • limited daily trading volume; and • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for diagnostic technology companies, in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our attention and our resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be deemed beneficial by our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our 25 Table of Contents common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company. The rights issued pursuant to our stockholder rights plan will become exercisable the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, the holders of the rights (other than the person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock) will be entitled to acquire, in exchange for the rights’ exercise price, shares of our common stock or shares of any company in which we are merged, with a value equal to twice the rights’ exercise price. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our investors purchased their shares. We may need to sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities in the future beyond what we have raised in a follow-on public offering on February 18, 2011 to meet our capital requirements which could cause significant dilution. On February 18, 2011, we completed a follow-on public offering of our common stock in which we issued an additional 4 million shares and raised approximately $20.2 million in net proceeds. As of December 31, 2010, we had 10,657,564 shares of our common stock outstanding and 1,013,983 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to our employee stock plans, which excludes 849,485 shares of our common stock that were subject to outstanding options. As of December 31, 2010, 75,637 shares of restricted stock to the certain Directors pursuant to the Debtor’s Incentive Plan and 6,252 shares of restricted stock awards to certain employees pursuant to the 2010 Plan were not vested. These shares vest ratably through June 2011. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, warrants to purchase 415,782 shares of our common stock were outstanding at exercise prices ranging from $9.25 to $25.00 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $17.59 per share. Also at December 31, 2010, there were 250,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 7.00% Notes. The exercise or conversion of all or a portion of our senior notes, outstanding options and warrants, and the vesting of our restricted stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Furthermore, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 