ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes in Part II Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to increase the volume of OVA1 sales, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and we expect to incur a net loss for fiscal year 2014 and the foreseeable future. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative costs. All of our revenues have historically been generated from sales of OVA1 tests performed by Quest Diagnostics. If we are unable to increase the volume of OVA1 sales, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. All of our revenue was derived from Quest Diagnostics during 2013, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully market our test through additional channels in the future. All of our revenue during 2013 was derived through our now terminated strategic partnership with Quest Diagnostics and was based on the number of OVA1 tests performed by Quest Diagnostics and the reimbursement rate received by Quest Diagnostics for those tests. Quest Diagnostics has disputed the effectiveness of our termination. We plan to offer OVA1 through additional channels in the future. However, if we are not successful in adding additional sales channels or if we do not experience growing OVA1 test volumes or receive less reimbursement per test than expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. The consequences of terminating the Quest Diagnostics Strategic Alliance Agreement are uncertain and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly given that all of our product revenue has historically been generated as a result of tests performed by Quest Diagnostics. All of our product revenue in 2013 was generated as a result of OVA1 tests performed by Quest Diagnostics. In August 2013, we terminated the Strategic Alliance Agreement with Quest Diagnostics, and in connection with the termination, we allowed Quest Diagnostics to continue to make OVA1 available as long as (i) Quest Diagnostics continues to make the payments and provide the reports to Vermillion in connection with such activities as would be required under the Strategic Alliance Agreement but for its termination and (ii) Vermillion determines that Vermillion and Quest Diagnostics are negotiating in good faith towards alternative terms. Quest Diagnostics has disputed the effectiveness of the termination. If Quest Diagnostics fails to make such payments or provide such reports or if Vermillion and Quest Diagnostics are no longer negotiating alternative terms in good faith, we may not continue to allow Quest Diagnostics to perform OVA1 tests or we may change the terms on which we provide OVA1 tests to Quest Diagnostics. It is uncertain how Quest Diagnostics might respond to any such action, and it is possible that Quest Diagnostics may commence litigation against us. Quest Diagnostics may also unilaterally terminate its current relationship with us or take other action that might adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Quest Diagnostics ceases to perform OVA1 tests and we do not have any other means of performing OVA1 tests, we not be able to generate any product revenue. Failures by third party payers to reimburse OVA1 or changes or variances in reimbursement rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our product revenue in 2013 was dependent on the amount Quest Diagnostics received from third party payers for performing OVA1 tests, and our future revenues will also be dependent upon third-party reimbursement. Insurance coverage and reimbursement rates for diagnostic tests are uncertain, subject to change and particularly volatile during the early stages of commercialization. There remain questions as to what extent third party payers, like Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies will provide coverage for OVA1 and for which indications. The reimbursement rates for OVA1 are largely out of our control. We have had limited visibility into any specific payer-level reimbursement data for OVA1 because such data has been provided to us by Quest Diagnostics once a year as part of the annual revenue true-up process. Quest Diagnostics has advised us that it has experienced volatility in the coverage and reimbursement of OVA1 due to contract negotiation with third party payers and 15 implementation requirements and that the reimbursement amounts it has received from third party payers varies from payer to payer, and, in some cases, the variation is material. Third party payers, including private insurance companies as well as government payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization of diagnostic tests such as OVA1. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes to the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation, and pricing for tests covered by Medicare is subject to change at any time. Reductions in third-party payer reimbursement rates may occur in the future. Reductions in the price at which OVA1 is reimbursed could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. If we and Quest Diagnostics are unable to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for OVA1 or if third party payers change their coverage or reimbursement policies with respect to OVA1, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We may seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities in the public or private markets, or through a collaborative arrangement or sale of assets. Additional financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for our business. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in such a financing may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to commercialize OVA1 outside the United States, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully. In 2013, virtually all of our product revenue was generated in the United States. In 2014, we plan to begin to actively seek laboratory customers and other distributors and partners outside the United States, so that we may begin directly or indirectly marketing and selling OVA1 outside the United States in 2015. We may not be able to find suitable customers or other distributors or partners outside the United States that are willing to enter into business relationships with us on terms that are advantageous to us or at all. Moreover, we may be prohibited from directly or indirectly marketing or selling OVA1 in various jurisdictions outside the United States if we are unable to obtain applicable regulatory approvals. In addition, we will need to ensure that third-party payers, including insurance companies and government payers, in jurisdictions outside the United States will pay or reimburse for OVA1 tests performed in those jurisdictions. If we are able to successfully commercialize OVA1 outside the United States, we will become subject to increased costs and risks of doing business outside the United States, including currency fluctuations, the impact of various anti-corruption and similar laws and recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets. We may not succeed in developing additional diagnostic products, and, even if we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic products, the diagnostic products may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and commercialize diagnostic products. There is considerable risk in developing diagnostic products based on our biomarker discovery efforts, as candidate biomarkers may fail to validate results in larger clinical studies or may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical accuracy. For example, markers being evaluated for one or more next-generation ovarian cancer diagnostic tests may not be validated in downstream pre-clinical or clinical studies, once we undertake and perform such studies. Clinical testing is expensive, takes many years to complete and can have an uncertain outcome. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Clinical trials for our next generation ovarian cancer tests, and other future diagnostic tests may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing on these tests. In addition, the results of our clinical trials may identify unexpected risks relative to safety or efficacy, which could complicate, delay or halt clinical trials, or result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. If we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic tests with acceptable performance characteristics, we may not succeed in achieving commercial market acceptance for those tests. Our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products, including OVA1, will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their advantages over existing diagnostic products; 16 • our success in establishing new clinical practices or changing previous ones, such that utilization of the tests fail to meet established standards of care, medical guidelines and the like; • our ability to develop business relationships with diagnostic or laboratory companies that can assist in the commercialization of these products in the US and globally; and • the scope and extent of the agreement by Medicare and third-party payers to provide full or partial reimbursement coverage for our products, which will affect patients’ willingness to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend or use our products. These factors present obstacles to commercial acceptance of our existing and potential diagnostic products, for which we will have to spend substantial time and financial resources to overcome, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Our inability to do so successfully would prevent us from generating revenue from OVA1 and future diagnostic products. The diagnostics market is competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Our principal competition currently comes from the many clinical options available to medical personnel involved in clinical decision making. For example, rather than ordering an OVA1 for a woman with an adnexal mass, obstetricians, gynecologists, and gynecologic oncologists may choose a different clinical option or none at all. If we are not able to convince clinicians that OVA1 provides significant improvement over current clinical practices, our ability to commercialize OVA1 will be adversely affected. Additionally, Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc. announced in September 2011 that it received clearance from the FDA to commercialize its Risk of Malignancy Algorithm (“ROMA”) test. The ROMA test is in direct competition with OVA1, and our revenues could be materially and adversely affected if and when the ROMA test is successfully commercialized. In addition, competitors, such as Becton Dickinson, ArrayIt Corporation, and Abbott Laboratories have publicly disclosed that they have been or are currently working on ovarian cancer diagnostic assays. Academic institutions periodically report new findings in ovarian cancer diagnostics that may have commercial value. Our failure to compete with any competitive diagnostic assay if and when commercialized could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have priced OVA1 at a point that recognizes the value-added by its increased sensitivity for ovarian malignancy. If others develop a test that is viewed to be similar to OVA1 in efficacy but is priced at a lower point, we and/or our strategic partners may have to lower the price of OVA1 in order to effectively compete, which would impact our margins and potential for profitability. The commercialization of our diagnostic tests may be adversely affected by changing FDA regulations, and any delay by or failure of the FDA to approve our diagnostic tests submitted to the FDA may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA cleared OVA1 in September 2009. Our activities related to diagnostic products are, or have the potential to be, subject to regulatory oversight by the FDA under provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations thereunder, including regulations governing the development, marketing, labeling, promotion, manufacturing and export of our products. Failure to comply with applicable requirements can lead to sanctions, including withdrawal of products from the market, recalls, refusal to authorize government contracts, product seizures, civil money penalties, injunctions and criminal prosecution. The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act requires that medical devices introduced to the United States market, unless exempted by regulation, be the subject of either a pre-market notification clearance, known as a 510(k) clearance or 510(k) de novo clearance, or a pre-market approval (“ PMA”). Some of our potential future clinical products may require a 510(k) or 510(k) de novo clearance, while others may require a PMA. With respect to devices reviewed through the 510(k) process, we may not market a device until an order is issued by the FDA finding our product to be substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device known as a predicate device. A 510(k) submission may involve the presentation of a substantial volume of data, including clinical data. The FDA may agree that the product is substantially equivalent to a predicate device and allow the product to be marketed in the United States. On the other hand, the FDA may determine that the device is not substantially equivalent and require a PMA, or require further information, such as additional test data, including data from clinical studies, before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. By requesting additional information, the FDA can delay market introduction of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive any necessary 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, or the imposition of stringent restrictions on the labeling and sales of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the FDA indicates that a PMA is required for any of our potential future clinical products, the application will require extensive clinical studies, manufacturing information and likely review by a panel of experts outside the FDA. Clinical studies to support either a 510(k) submission or a PMA application would need to be conducted in accordance with FDA requirements. Failure to comply with FDA requirements could result in the FDA’s refusal to accept the data or the imposition of regulatory sanctions. We cannot assure that any necessary 510(k) clearance or PMA approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. To the extent we seek FDA 510(k) clearance or FDA pre-market approval 17 for other diagnostic tests, any delay by or failure of the FDA to clear or approve those diagnostic tests may adversely affect our consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements for production, marketing and postmarket monitoring of our products, we may not be able to market our products and services and may be subject to stringent penalties, product restrictions or recall; further improvements to our manufacturing operations may be required that could entail additional costs. The commercialization of our products could be delayed, halted or prevented by applicable FDA regulations. If the FDA were to view any of our actions as non-compliant, it could initiate enforcement actions, such as a warning letter and possible imposition of penalties. In addition, analyte specific reagents that we may provide would be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations (“QSR”), which establish extensive requirements for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement actions for us or our potential suppliers. Adverse FDA actions in any of these areas could significantly increase our expenses and reduce our revenue and profitability. We will need to undertake steps to maintain our operations in line with the FDA’s QSR requirements. Some components of OVA1 are manufactured by other companies and we are required to maintain supply agreements with these companies. If these agreements are not satisfactory to the FDA, we will need to renegotiate these agreements. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our ability to commercialize OVA1. Our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. If and when we begin commercializing and assembling our products by ourselves, our facilities will be subject to the same inspections. We or our suppliers may not satisfy such regulatory requirements, and any such failure to do so may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our suppliers fail to produce acceptable or sufficient stock, make changes to the design or labeling of their biomarker kits or discontinue production of existing biomarker kits or instrument platforms, we may be unable to meet market demand for OVA1. The commercialization of our OVA1 test depends on the supply of five different immunoassay kits from third-party manufacturers run on automated instruments. Failure by any of these manufacturers to produce kits that pass Vermillion’s quality control measures might lead to back-order and/or loss of revenue due to missed sales and customer dissatisfaction. In addition, if the design or labeling of any kit were to change, continued OVA1 supply could be threatened since new validation and submission to the FDA for 510(k) clearance could be required as a condition of sale. Discontinuation of any of these kits would require identification, validation and 510(k) submission on a revised OVA1 design. Likewise, discontinuation or failure to support or service the instruments may pose risk to ongoing operations. In May 2013, we received notification that the part number for one of the five immunoassay component kits that are used in OVA1 will no longer be supported on the instrument, effective December 2014, as the manufacturer transitions to a newer platform. While we do not anticipate disruption of ongoing operations, failure of the manufacturer to provide extended service or support might harm the business. We are also planning on consolidating the five OVA1 immunoassays onto a single mainstream automated platform and substituting a new immunoassay component kit for the discontinuing kit as a mitigating action. These planned changes will require a 510(k) submission with the FDA. No assurances can be made that the FDA will clear our expected 510(k) submission approving these changes to OVA1 prior to December 2014, or at all. If we fail to continue to develop our technologies, we may not be able to successfully foster adoption of our products and services or develop new product offerings. Our technologies are new and complex, and are subject to change as new discoveries are made. New discoveries and advancements in the diagnostic field are essential if we are to foster the adoption of our product offerings. Development of these technologies remains a substantial risk to us due to various factors, including the scientific challenges involved, our ability to find and collaborate successfully with others working in the diagnostic field, and competing technologies, which may prove more successful than our technologies. If we fail to maintain our rights to utilize intellectual property directed to diagnostic biomarkers, we may not be able to offer diagnostic tests using those biomarkers. One aspect of our business plan is to develop diagnostic tests based on certain biomarkers, which we have the right to utilize through licenses with our academic collaborators, such as the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. In some cases, our collaborators own the entire right to the biomarkers. In other cases, we co-own the biomarkers with our collaborators. If, for some reason, we lose our license to biomarkers owned entirely by our collaborators, we may not be able to use those biomarkers in diagnostic tests. If we lose our exclusive license to biomarkers co-owned by us and our collaborators, our collaborators may license their share of the intellectual property to a third party that may compete with us in offering diagnostic tests, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If a third party infringes on our proprietary rights, we may lose any competitive advantage we may have as a result of diversion of our time, enforcement costs and the loss of the exclusivity of our proprietary rights. 18 Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our technology and brand. We have submitted a number of patent applications covering biomarkers that may have diagnostic or therapeutic utility. Our patent applications may or may not result in additional patents being issued. If third parties engage in activities that infringe on our proprietary rights, we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights and the attention of our management may be diverted from our business, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the competitor is not infringing, either of which may harm our competitive position. We cannot be sure that competitors will not design around our patented technology. We also rely upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, knowledge or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If any trade secret, knowledge or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If others successfully assert their proprietary rights against us, we may be precluded from making and selling our products or we may be required to obtain licenses to use their technology. Our success depends on avoiding infringing on the proprietary technologies of others. If a third party were to assert claims that we are violating their patents, we might incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. Any such lawsuit may involve considerable management and financial resources and may not be decided in our favor. If we are found liable, we may be subject to monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting us from using the technology. We may also be required to obtain licenses under patents owned by third parties and such licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes, employment claims made by current or former employees, and claims brought by third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. In addition, we may bring claims against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert our attention and resources, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. An unfavorable judgment against us in any legal proceeding or claim could require us to pay monetary damages. In addition, an unfavorable judgment in which the counterparty is awarded equitable relief, such as an injunction, could have an adverse impact on our licensing and sublicensing activities, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our business is highly dependent on key executives and employees, our inability to recruit and retain these people could hinder our business plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers and certain key employees. Our executive officers and key employees are employed at will by us. Any inability to engage new executive officers or key employees could impact operations or delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization objectives. To continue our research and product development efforts, we need people skilled in areas such as clinical operations, regulatory affairs and clinical diagnostics. Competition for qualified employees is intense. If we lose the services of any executive officers or key employees, our ability to achieve our business objectives could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our diagnostic efforts may cause us to have significant product liability exposure. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic tests entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. We will need to increase our amount of insurance coverage in the future if we are successful at introducing new diagnostic products, and this will increase our costs. If we are held liable for a claim or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make substantial payments. This may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations, as well as those of the collaborators on which we depend, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire; natural disasters, including earthquakes; computer viruses; human error; power shortages; telecommunication failures; international acts of terror; and similar events. Although we have certain business continuity plans in place, we have not established a formal 19 comprehensive disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses we may suffer. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations adopted by the SEC, are resulting in increased compliance costs. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and diverting employees’ time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of our time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”). Pursuant to the PPACA, beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer has paid a sales tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. The PPACA also mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. This adjustment is in addition to a productivity adjustment to the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. In addition to the PPACA, a number of states are also contemplating significant reform of their healthcare policies. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by PPACA have resulted in decreased profits to us, and lower reimbursements by payers for our tests. Other changes to healthcare laws may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs to remediate hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties affected by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances could adversely affect the value and the ability to transfer or encumber such property. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock may be low and our ownership is concentrated. The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock has at times been low in the past and may again be low in the future. If the liquidity and trading volume of our common stock is low, this could adversely impact the trading price of our shares, our ability to issue stock and our stockholders’ ability to obtain liquidity in their shares. The issuance of common stock by us in May 2013 and subsequent warrant exercise in December 2013 involved a significant issuance of stock to a limited number of investors, significantly increasing the concentration of our share ownership in a few holders. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · failure to significantly increase revenue and volumes of OVA1; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; 20 · announcements or introductions of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · publicity regarding actual or potential discoveries of biomarkers by others; · comments or opinions by securities analysts or stockholders; · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or life science industries; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions and divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors; · litigation or threat of litigation; · additions or departures of key personnel; · limited daily trading volume; · economic and other external factors, disasters or crises; and · our announcement of additional fundraisings. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for diagnostic technology companies, in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our attention and our resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws, other agreements and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be deemed beneficial by our stockholders. In connection with our offering of common stock and warrants on May 13, 2013, we entered into a shareholders agreement which, among other things, includes agreements limiting our ability to enter into acquisition and other transactions. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company. We could face adverse consequences as a result of the actions of activist stockholders. Certain of our stockholders may, from time to time, attempt to aggressively involve themselves in the governance and strategic direction of our Company above and apart from normal interactions between stockholders and management. Such activism, and any related negative publicity, could result in substantial costs that negatively impact our stock price and increase its volatility. In addition, such activism could cause a diversion of the attention of our management and Board of Directors and create perceived uncertainties with existing and potential strategic partners impacting our ability to consummate potential transactions, collaborations or opportunities in furtherance of our strategic plan. In addition, such activism could make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, customers and business partners, which could disrupt the growth of the market for OVA1, delay the development and commercialization of new tests and further adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and increase its volatility. In addition, the activists may have little or no experience in the diagnostics industry or may seek to elect members to our Board of Directors with little or no experience in the diagnostics industry who may have a specific agenda different and apart from the majority of our stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders purchased their shares. We may need to sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities in the future to meet our capital requirements which could cause significant dilution. As of December 31, 2013, we had 35,825,673 shares of our common stock outstanding and 1,420,441 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to our employee stock plans, which excludes 21 1,447,968 shares of our common stock that were subject to outstanding options. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, warrants to purchase 497,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding. These warrants are exercisable at the election of the holders thereof at an exercise price of $1.67 per share. The exercise of all or a portion of our outstanding options and warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Furthermore, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 