ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below, as well as all of the other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties which we are currently unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also adversely affect our business. We expect to continue to incur net losses in 2007 and 2008. If we are unable to significantly increase our revenues, we may never achieve profitability. From our inception in December 1993 through December 31, 2006, we have generated cumulative revenue from continuing operations of approximately $193.3 million and have incurred net losses of approximately $217.9 million. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and expect these losses to continue for at least the next several quarters. For example, we experienced net losses of approximately $29.1 million in 2002, $36.7 million in 2003, $19.8 million in 2004, $35.4 million in 2005 and $22.1 million in 2006. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative costs associated with our operations. These costs have exceeded our gross profit which, to date, has been generated principally from product sales derived from a business that we have now sold. We expect to incur additional operating losses and these losses may be substantial. We may never achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We will need to raise additional capital in the future, and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We believe that our current cash balances may not be sufficient to fund planned expenditures. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During 2007, we may have to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, or a combination thereof, in the public or private markets in order to continue operations. Additional financing opportunities may not be available, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for our company. Any future equity financing would result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations, through debt covenants or other restrictions. If adequate and acceptable financing is not available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of certain of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize certain of our products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We may also reduce our marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. Any of these options could reduce our ability to successfully execute our business plan. 16 Table of Contents We may not succeed in developing diagnostic products and even if we do succeed in developing diagnostic products, they may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. Our success depends on our ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic products. There is considerable risk in developing diagnostic products based on our biomarker discovery efforts as potential tests may fail to validate results in larger clinical studies and may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical sensitivity and specificity. If we do succeed in developing diagnostic tests with acceptable performance characteristics, we may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance for those tests. Our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products that we may develop, such as tests, kits and devices, will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their advantages over existing diagnostic products; • our ability to further establish business relationships with other diagnostic companies that can assist in the commercialization of these products; and • the agreement by Medicare and third-party payers to provide full or partial reimbursement coverage for our products, the scope and extent of which will affect patients’ willingness to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our products. These factors present obstacles to significant commercial acceptance of our potential diagnostic products, which we will have to spend substantial time and money to overcome, if we can do so at all. Our inability to successfully do so would prevent us from generating additional revenue from diagnostic products and we could be unable to develop a profitable business. Our ability to commercialize our potential diagnostic tests is heavily dependent on our strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics. On July 22, 2005, Ciphergen and Quest Diagnostics entered into a strategic alliance which will focus on commercializing up to three assays chosen from Ciphergen’s pipeline over the next three years. If this strategic alliance does not continue for its full term or if Quest Diagnostics fails to proceed to diligently perform its obligations as a part of the strategic alliance, such as independently developing, validating, and commercializing potential diagnostics tests, our ability to commercialize our potential diagnostic tests would be seriously harmed. Due to the current uncertainty with regard to FDA regulation of ASRs or for other reasons, Quest may elect to forgo development of ASR “home brew” laboratory tests and instead elect to wait for the development of IVD test kits, which would adversely affect our revenues. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund diagnostic development programs or research programs on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop diagnostic tests, our ability to expand our business would be seriously harmed. The commercialization of our diagnostic tests may be adversely impacted by changing FDA regulations. The current regulatory environment with regard to ASRs and IVDMIAs, such as our potential ovarian cancer diagnostic test, is unclear. To the extent the FDA requires that our potential diagnostic tests receive FDA 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval, our ability to develop and commercialize our potential diagnostic tests may be prevented or significantly delayed, which would adversely affect our revenues. If we fail to continue to develop our technologies, we may not be able to successfully foster adoption of our products and services or develop new product offerings. Our technologies are new and complex, and are subject to change as new discoveries are made. New discoveries and further progress in our field are essential if we are to foster the adoption of our product offerings. Development of these technologies remains a substantial risk to us due to various factors including the scientific challenges involved, our ability to find and collaborate with others working in our field, and competing technologies, which may prove more successful than ours. In addition, we have reduced our research and development headcount and expenditures, which may adversely affect our ability to further develop our technologies. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our rights to utilize intellectual property directed to diagnostic biomarkers, we may not be able to offer diagnostic tests using those biomarkers. One aspect of our business plan is to develop diagnostic tests based on certain biomarkers which we have the right to utilize through licenses with our academic collaborators, such as The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. In some cases, our collaborators own the entire right to the biomarkers. In other cases we co-own the biomarkers with our collaborator. If, for some reason, we lose our license to biomarkers owned entirely by our collaborators, we may not be able to use those biomarkers in diagnostic tests. If we lose our exclusive license to biomarkers co-owned by us and our collaborators, our collaborators may license their share of the intellectual property to a third party that may compete with us in offering the diagnostic test. If the United States Patent and Trademark Office significantly narrows or cancels the claims of United States Patent 6,734,022, which is presently under re-examination, we will not receive a $2,000,000 potential payment and may lose market exclusivity for certain of our potential products. Our United States Patent 6,734,022 (the ‘022 patent) is currently under re-examination in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The ‘022 patent is directed to a fundamental process of SELDI that involves capturing an analyte from a sample on the surface of a mass spectrometry probe derivatized with an affinity reagent, applying matrix and detecting the captured analyte by laser desorption mass spectrometry. In March 2007, the USPTO issued a final office action in the re-examination, rejecting all of the claims of the ‘022 patent. We believe that the claims of the ‘022 patent are valid. While the office action is designated “final” we have, under the USPTO rules, as much as 6 months to advocate for the patentability of the claimed invention with the patent examiners, after which we have recourse to appeal. We plan to respond to the final office action and if necessary to appeal the decision. If the USPTO does not issue a re-examination certificate confirming the patentability of all of the claims as originally issued in the ‘022 patent, or claims of equivalent scope, we will not be entitled to receive the $2,000,000 holdback amount from Bio-Rad pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement between Ciphergen and Bio-Rad. Furthermore, if these claims are canceled or significantly narrowed in scope, we may be unable to block competitors from utilizing SELDI to develop diagnostic tests that involve detecting a single diagnostic biomarker, and our revenues may therefore be adversely affected. We have drawn funds from the $10 million secured line of credit provided by Quest Diagnostics. If we fail to achieve the loan forgiveness milestones set forth therein, we will be responsible for full repayment of the loan. In connection with the strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics, Quest Diagnostics agreed to provide us with a $10 million secured line of credit, from which we had drawn a total of approximately $7.1 million as of December 31, 2006. Borrowings may be made in monthly increments of up to approximately $417,000 over a two year period, with accrued interest to be paid monthly. Funds from this collateralized line of credit may only be used to pay certain costs and expenses directly related to the strategic alliance, with forgiveness of the repayment obligations based upon our achievement of milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of laboratory tests. Should we fail to achieve these milestones, we would be responsible for the repayment of the outstanding principal amount of any such loans on or before July 22, 2010. If a competitor infringes our proprietary rights, we may lose any competitive advantage we may have as a result of diversion of management time, enforcement costs and the loss of the exclusivity of our proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our technology and brand. In addition to our licensed SELDI technology, we also have submitted patent applications directed to subsequent technological improvements and application of the SELDI technology, including patent applications covering biomarkers that may have diagnostic or therapeutic utility. Our patent applications may not result in additional patents being issued. If competitors engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary 18 Table of Contents rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the competitor is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. We cannot be sure that competitors will not design around our patented technology. We also rely upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If others successfully assert their proprietary rights against us, we may be precluded from making and selling our products or we may be required to obtain licenses to use their technology. Our success also depends on avoiding infringing on the proprietary technologies of others. If a third party were to assert claims that we are violating their patents, we might incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. Any such lawsuit may not be decided in our favor, and if we are found liable, we may be subject to monetary damages or injunction against using their technology. We may also be required to obtain licenses under their patents and such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we or our future potential partners fail to comply with FDA requirements, we may not be able to market our products and services and may be subject to stringent penalties; further improvements to our manufacturing operations may be required that would entail additional costs. The commercialization of our products could be impacted by being delayed, halted or prevented by applicable FDA regulations. If the FDA were to view any of our actions as non-compliant, it could initiate enforcement action such as a warning letter and possible imposition of penalties. Finally, ASRs that we may provide will be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the FDA’s QSRs, which establish extensive regulations for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement action for us or our potential partners. Adverse FDA action in any of these areas could significantly increase our expenses and limit our revenue and profitability. Although we are ISO 9001:2000 certified with respect to our manufacturing processes used for our previous ProteinChip products, we will need to undertake additional steps to maintain our operations in line with FDA QSR requirements. Our manufacturing facilities will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. We have not yet been subject to an FDA inspection. We may not satisfy such regulatory requirements, and any such failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our diagnostics efforts. Because our business is highly dependent on key executives and employees, our inability to recruit and retain these people could hinder our business plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers and certain key employees. Our product development could be delayed or curtailed if we lose the services of any of these people. To expand our research and product development efforts, we need people skilled in areas such as bioinformatics, biochemistry, and information services. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We will not be able to expand our business if we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, we took steps to reduce our headcount and our voluntary employee turnover has increased from historic levels. Our diagnostic efforts may cause us to have significant product liability exposure. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostics entails an inherent risk of product liability claims. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our existing insurance will have to be increased in the future if we are successful at introducing diagnostic products and this will increase our costs. In the event that we are held liable for a claim against which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, our liabilities could exceed our total assets. 19 Table of Contents Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations as well as those of the collaborators on which we depend are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, computer viruses, human error, power shortages, telecommunication failures, international acts of terror and similar events. Our primary facility is located in Fremont, California, where we also have laboratories. Although we have certain business continuity plans in place, we have not established a formal comprehensive disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses we may suffer. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely impact our future financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, are resulting in increased compliance costs. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our business is subject to risks from international operations. We conduct business globally. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; and natural disasters. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future international business. In certain countries, a few key individuals are important to our local success. In addition, China does not currently have a comprehensive and highly developed legal system, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights. As a result, enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of such laws may be inconsistent. Such inconsistency could lead to piracy and degradation of our intellectual property protection. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of nonhazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances could adversely affect the value and the ability to transfer or encumber such property. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be deemed beneficial by our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. 20 Table of Contents The rights issued pursuant to our stockholder rights plan will become exercisable the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, the holders of the rights (other than the person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock) will be entitled to acquire, in exchange for the rights’ exercise price, shares of our common stock or shares of any company in which we are merged, with a value equal to twice the rights’ exercise price. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our investor purchased his shares. Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. As of December 31, 2006 we had $19 million of convertible senior notes outstanding. As a result of this indebtedness, we have high principal and interest payment obligations. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value, adversely affecting the value of the notes or the shares into which those notes may be converted. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • failure to commercialize diagnostic tests and significantly increase revenue; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • publicity regarding actual or potential discoveries of biomarkers by others; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions and divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors; • litigation or threat of litigation; 21 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of our common stock; • limited daily trading volume; and • economic and other external factors or disasters or crises. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, the value of the notes and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the notes. As of December 31, 2006, we had: • 39,220,437 shares of common stock outstanding; • 4,765,815 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of options outstanding under our stock option plans with a weighted average exercise price of $3.61 per share • in addition to the shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options referred to in the preceding bullet point, 2,956,385 shares reserved for future issuance under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans; and • Warrants outstanding for 2,400,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $3.50 for 2,200,000 warrants and $1.26 for 200,000 warrants. Because the notes are convertible into common stock only at a specific conversion price, a decline in our common stock price may cause the value of the notes to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 