Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors and uncertainties together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Vermillion, Inc. (“Vermillion”) and subsidiaries’ (collectively referred to as the “Company”) audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes in Part II Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. The risks and uncertainties management (“we”, “us” or “our”) describes below are the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business. At the February 14, 2008, Special Meeting of Stockholders, the stockholders of Vermillion approved the proposal to authorize the Board of Directors in its discretion, without further authorization of Vermillion’s stockholders, to amend Vermillion’s Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse split of Vermillion’s common stock by a ratio of between 1 for 6 to 1 for 10. On February 15, 2008, Vermillion’s Board of Directors approved a 1 for 10 reverse stock split (the “Reverse Stock Split”) of Vermillion’s common stock effective at the close of business on Monday, March 3, 2008. Accordingly, all share and per share amounts were adjusted to reflect the impact of the 1 for 10 reverse stock split in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Vermillion’s Emergence from Bankruptcy Vermillion filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on March 30, 2009, and, despite having emerged from bankruptcy on January 22, 2010, Vermillion continues to be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with residual Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. On March 30, 2009, Vermillion filed a voluntary petition for relief (the “Bankruptcy Filing”) under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”). Subsequently on January 22, 2010, the confirmation order issued by the Bankruptcy Court for approving Vermillion’s Second Amended Plan of Reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code dated January 5, 2010 (the “Plan of Reorganization”) became final and all conditions precedent January 22, 2010 were satisfied or waived. Accordingly, the Company emerged from bankruptcy under Chapter 11. Because of the residual risks and uncertainties associated with Vermillion’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, the ultimate impact that events that occurred during, or that may occur subsequent to, these proceedings will have on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. The Company’s actual financial results after Vermillion’s emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. Vermillion emerged from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on January 22, 2010, pursuant to terms of its Plan of Reorganization approved by the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Plan of Reorganization, the Company was required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and the Company’s ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11. The projected financial information filed with the Bankruptcy Court reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions, many of which were and continue to be beyond our control and which may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. The Company’s actual results will likely vary from those contemplated by the projected financial information and the variations may be material. The Company’s actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 may not be comparable to its historical financial information. As a result of the consummation of the Plan of Reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations from and after January 22, 2010, may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in the Company’s historical financial statements. 15 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings will not adversely affect the Company’s operations going forward. Although Vermillion emerged from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 upon consummation of the Plan of Reorganization, we cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect the Company’s operations going forward, including its ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, partners and others and to attract and retain customers. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and retain customers could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Risks Related to the Company’s Business We expect to incur a net loss for 2011 and 2010. If we are unable to generate significant diagnostic products revenue, the Company may never achieve profitability. From the Company’s inception through December 31, 2008, the Company has generated cumulative revenue from the sale of products and services to customers of $229,424,000 and has incurred net losses of $257,472,000. The Company has experienced significant operating losses each year since its inception and we expect these losses to continue for at least the next year, resulting in an expected net loss for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010. For example, the Company experienced net losses of $22,048,000, $18,330,000 and $21,282,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative costs associated with the Company’s operations. These costs have exceeded the Company’s gross profit, which was generated principally from product sales and service income derived from the protein research products and collaborative services business (the “Instrument Business”), before the assets and liabilities were sold (the “Instrument Business Sale”) to Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. (“Bio-Rad”) on November 13, 2006. We expect to incur additional operating losses that may be substantial. The Company’s inability to become and remain profitable may depress the market price of Vermillion’s common stock and impair the Company’s ability to raise capital and continue our operations. Even if the Company does achieve profitability, the Company may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may need to raise additional capital for the Company in the future, and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We currently believe that the Company’s current cash resources together with existing debt facilities will be sufficient to meet the Company’s anticipated needs for the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital sooner in order to develop new or enhanced products or services, increase our efforts to discover biomarkers and develop them into diagnostic products, or acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. We may seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities, or a combination thereof, in the public or private markets, through a collaborative arrangement or sale of assets, or through the liquidation of Vermillion’s investments in auction rate securities. Additional financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for the Company’s business. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity would result in substantial dilution to Vermillion’s stockholders, and the securities issued in such a financing may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of Vermillion’s common stock or convertible senior notes. If Vermillion raises additional funds by issuing debt, the Company may be subject to limitations on its operations, through debt covenants or other restrictions. If Vermillion obtains additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or strategic partners, Vermillion may be required to relinquish rights to certain technologies or products that it might otherwise seek to retain. If adequate and acceptable financing is not available to Vermillion at the time that it seeks to raise additional capital, our ability to execute our business plan successfully may be negatively impacted. Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, Vermillion had $19,000,000 of outstanding principal under its convertible senior notes, including $16,500,000 in aggregate principal of its 7.00% convertible senior notes due September 1, 2011 (the “7.00% Notes”), and $2,500,000 in aggregate principal of its 4.50% convertible senior notes due September 1, 2008 (the “4.50% Notes”), and $10,000,000 outstanding under Vermillion’s secured line of credit with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (“Quest”). As a result of negotiations between the holders of the 4.50% Notes and Vermillion, the $2,500,000 outstanding principal balance related to the 4.50% Notes, which matured on September 1, 2008, was not redeemed by Vermillion. Interest of $56,000 related to the 4.50% Notes was paid on the maturity date, September 1, 2008. Pursuant to the 4.50% Notes indenture agreement, late payment may result in interest to be calculated on the outstanding principal balance and overdue interest. On December 11, 2008, the trustee of the Indenture and the holders of the $2,500,000 outstanding principal balance related to the 4.50% Notes agreed to extend the maturity date of the 4.50% Notes to September 1, 2009, and to waive any past default by Vermillion of its obligation to make payment on the principal of and interest on the 4.50% Notes. 16 Table of Contents From November 24, 2009 to January 22, 2010, Vermillion exchanged a total of 15,794 shares of its common stock for $305,000 in principal and $18,000 in unpaid interest related to the 4.50% Notes. On January 22, 2010, Vermillion paid the remaining unpaid principal balance of $2,195,000 and interest of $140,000 related to the 4.50% Notes. None of the 4.50% Notes are outstanding. From November 30, 2009, through January 22, 2010, Vermillion exchanged 428,906 shares of its common stock for $7,100,000 in principal and unpaid interest of $732,000 related to the 7.00% Notes. From October 21, 2009 through November 19, 2009, $4,400,000 in principal related to the 7.00% Notes was converted into 220,000 shares of Vermillion’s common stock. On January 22, 2010, Vermillion paid $362,000 of interest related to the 7.00% Notes. $5,000,000 in principal of the 7.00% Notes remain outstanding. Quest provided Vermillion with $10,000,000 secured line of credit, which was forgivable based upon the achievement of certain milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of certain diagnostic tests of Vermillion. As of Vermillion’s emergence from bankruptcy, several of the milestones had been met and the principal balance of the secured line of credit was reduced to $7,000,000. The $7,000,000 secured line of credit is secured by Vermillion’s assets, and is senior to the outstanding $5,000,000 of the 7.00% Notes. As a result of this indebtedness, Vermillion has substantial principal and interest payment obligations. The degree to which the Company is leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for Vermillion to make payments on the convertible senior notes and secured line of credit; • make it difficult for Vermillion to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make the Company more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the Company’s business. Vermillion’s ability to meet its debt service obligations will depend upon the Company’s future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting the Company’s operations, many of which are beyond our control. If Vermillion cannot meet its debt service obligation it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position. Vermillion holds auction rate securities in its portfolio of investments. Due to failed auctions of individual auction rate securities held in Vermillion’s investment portfolio, Vermillion is currently unable to liquidate its auction rate securities into cash at par value. If Vermillion is required to liquidate its investments in the future, the Company may incur a significant loss. At December 31, 2008, Vermillion’s investments consisted of $341,000 invested in auction rate securities, which were classified as available-for-sale long-term investments due to failed auctions related to these investments through December 31, 2008. The underlying assets of these auction rate securities include private placements of credit linked notes. These auction rate securities are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals generally every 28 days. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates do not reset at a market rate but instead reset based on a formula contained in the security, which rate is generally higher than the current market rate. The failure of the auctions means Vermillion may be unable to liquidate its auction rate securities into cash at par value until a future auction of these investments is successful or the auction rate security is refinanced by the issuer into another type of instrument. The other-than-temporary impairment was a result of multiple auction failures for these auction rate securities and Vermillion’s inability to hold these auction rate securities until the recovery of the par amount due to operating cash requirements within the next twelve months. If Vermillion is required to redeem its investments at less than par value or to liquidate its investments at a deep discount in the future, Vermillion may incur a significant loss on the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If Vermillion is unable to liquidate its investments in auction rate securities or there is additional other-than-temporary impairment in the market value of its investments in auction rate securities, this will have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and may increase the volatility of Vermillion’s common stock price. 17 Table of Contents We may not succeed in additional developing diagnostic products, and, even if we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic products, the diagnostic products may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. The Company’s success depends on our ability to continue to develop and commercialize diagnostic products. There is considerable risk in developing diagnostic products based on Vermillion’s biomarker discovery efforts as candidate biomakers may fail to validate results in larger clinical studies and may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical sensitivity and specificity. If we do succeed in developing additional diagnostic tests with acceptable performance characteristics, we may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance for those tests. Our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products that Vermillion may develop, such as tests, kits and devices, will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of Vermillion’s products and their advantages over existing diagnostic products; • our ability to further establish business relationships with other diagnostic companies that can assist in the commercialization of these products; and • the agreement by Medicare and third-party payers to provide full or partial reimbursement coverage for Vermillion’s products, the scope and extent of which will affect patients’ willingness to pay for Vermillion’s products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend Vermillion’s products. These factors present obstacles to significant commercial acceptance of Vermillion’s potential diagnostic products, which the Company will have to spend substantial time and financial resources to overcome and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Our inability to do so successfully would prevent the Company from generating revenue from future diagnostic products and from developing a profitable business. The diagnostics space is competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Our principal competition currently comes from the current clinical practices (e.g. those of obstetricians and gynecologists and gynecologic oncologists in the case of the OVA1™ ovarian tumor triage test (the “OVA1 Test”). We believe that the OVA1 Test provides a significant improvement over current clinical practices, but if we are not able to convince clinicians of this, our ability to commercialize OVA1 Test would be adversely affected. The field of ovarian cancer diagnostics generally and the management of ovarian adnexal masses specifically are competitive. Companies such as Fujirebio, Correlogic, LabCorp, ArrayIt, HealthLynx, Becton Dickinson among others have publicly disclosed that they have been or are currently working on ovarian cancer diagnostic assays. Additionally, academic institutions periodically report new findings in ovarian cancer diagnostics. If we are unable to license these findings and if these findings are licensed to other parties, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We have priced the OVA1 Test at a point that recognizes the value-added by its increased sensitivity for ovarian malignancy. If others develop a test that is viewed to be similar to the OVA1 Test in efficacy but is priced at a lower point, we may have to lower the price of the OVA1 Test, which would impact our margins and potential for profitability. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize Vermillion’s potential diagnostic tests is heavily dependent on its strategic alliance with Quest. On July 22, 2005, Vermillion and Quest entered into a strategic alliance agreement (the “Strategic Alliance Agreement”) to develop and commercialize up to three diagnostic tests from Vermillion’s product pipeline (the “Strategic Alliance”). The term of the Strategic Alliance Agreement, which is the period Vermillion has an obligation to present three diagnostic tests to Quest for potential election, was set to expire on the earlier of (i) the three-year anniversary of the agreement, which was July 22, 2008, and (ii) the date on which Quest commercializes the three diagnostic tests covered by such agreement. On July 21, 2008, Vermillion and Quest amended the Strategic Alliance Agreement to extend the term of the agreement to end on the earlier of (i) September 1, 2008 and (ii) the date on which Quest commercializes the three diagnostic tests. On October 24, 2008, Vermillion and Quest amended the Strategic Alliance Agreement to extend the term of the agreement to end on the earlier of (i) September 1, 2009 and (ii) the date on which Quest commercializes the three diagnostic tests. Subsequently on October 7, 2009, Vermillion and Quest amended the Strategic Alliance Agreement (the Strategic Alliance Agreement and the July 21, 2008, October 24, 2008 and October 7, 2009, amendments are collectively referred to as the “Amended Strategic Alliance Agreement”) to extend the term of the agreement to end on the earlier of (i) October 7, 2012 and (ii) the date on which Quest makes its third development election. To date, Quest has selected only two diagnostic tests, which are the peripheral artery disease (“PAD”) blood test (“VASCLIR™”) and the OVA1 Test, to commercialize. If this Strategic Alliance does not continue for its full term or if Quest fails to proceed to diligently perform its obligations as a part of the Strategic Alliance, such as independently developing, validating, and commercializing potential diagnostic tests, our ability to commercialize Vermillion’s potential diagnostic tests would be seriously harmed. Due to the current uncertainty with regard to the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) regulation of analyte specific reagents (“ASRs”) or, for other reasons, Quest may elect to forgo development of ASR “home brew” laboratory tests and instead elect to wait for the development of in vitro diagnostic (“IVD”) test kits, which would adversely affect the Company’s revenues. If we elect to increase the Company’s expenditures to fund in-house diagnostic development programs or research programs, the Company will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The commercialization of Vermillion’s diagnostic tests may be affected adversely by changing FDA regulations, and any delay by or failure of the FDA to approve any of Vermillion’s diagnostic tests submitted to the FDA may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The current regulatory environment with regard to ASRs and IVD multivariate index assays (“IVDMIAs”) continues to evolve and be a topic of discussion. To the extent the FDA requires that Vermillion’s diagnostic tests receive FDA 510(k) clearance or FDA pre-market approval, our ability to develop and commercialize Vermillion’s diagnostic tests may be prevented or significantly delayed, which would adversely affect the Company’s consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Any delay by or failure of the FDA to approve any diagnostic test that Vermillion submits to the FDA may adversely affect the Company’s consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to continue to develop Vermillion’s technologies, we may not be able to successfully foster adoption of Vermillion’s products and services or develop new product offerings. Vermillion’s technologies are new and cutting edge, and are subject to change as new discoveries are made. New discoveries and advancements in the diagnostic field are essential if we are to foster the adoption of Vermillion’s product offerings. Development of these technologies remains a substantial risk to the Company due to various factors, including the scientific challenges involved, our ability to find and collaborate with others working in the diagnostic field, and competing technologies, which may prove more successful than Vermillion’s technologies. In addition, we have reduced Vermillion’s research and development headcount and expenditures, which may adversely affect Vermillion’s ability to further develop its technologies. If we fail to maintain Vermillion’s rights to utilize intellectual property directed to diagnostic biomarkers, Vermillion may not be able to offer diagnostic tests using those biomarkers. One aspect of our business plan is to develop diagnostic tests based on certain biomarkers, which Vermillion has the right to utilize through licenses with its academic collaborators, such as The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. In some cases, Vermillion’s collaborators own the entire right to the biomarkers. In other cases, Vermillion co-owns the biomarkers with its collaborators. If, for some reason, Vermillion loses its license to biomarkers owned entirely by its collaborators, Vermillion may not be able to use those biomarkers in diagnostic tests. If Vermillion loses its exclusive license to biomarkers co-owned by Vermillion and its collaborators, Vermillion’s collaborators may license their share of the intellectual property to a third party that may compete with the Company in offering diagnostic tests, which would materially adversely affect the Company’s consolidated revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Vermillion has drawn $10,000,000 from the secured line of credit provided by Quest. If Vermillion fails to achieve the milestones for the forgiveness of the secured line of credit set forth in Vermillion’s amended credit agreement with Quest, Vermillion will be responsible for full repayment of the secured line of credit on or before October 7, 2012. As of December 31, 2008, Vermillion has drawn $10,000,000 from the secured lined of credit in connection with the Strategic Alliance. Vermillion borrowed in monthly increments of $417,000 over a two-year period, and has paid all interest that was due. Funds from this secured line of credit may only be used for certain costs and expenses directly related to the Strategic Alliance, with forgiveness of the repayment obligations based upon Vermillion’s achievement of milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of certain diagnostic tests. On October 7, 2009, Vermillion and Quest amended the Strategic Alliance Agreement to extend the term of the agreement to end on the earlier of (i) October 7, 2012 and (ii) the date on which Quest makes its third development election. On September 11, 2009, Vermillion announced its milestone achievement of clearing the OVA1 Test with the FDA and, effective after the emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy, reduced its principal obligations under the Amended Strategic Alliance Agreement to $7,000,000. Should Vermillion fail to achieve the remaining milestones, Vermillion would be responsible for the repayment of the outstanding principal amount and any unpaid interest on the secured line of credit on or before October 7, 2012, which would materially adversely affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If a competitor infringes on Vermillion’s proprietary rights, the Company may lose any competitive advantage it may have as a result of diversion of our time, enforcement costs and the loss of the exclusivity of Vermillion’s proprietary rights. The Company’s success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce Vermillion’s proprietary rights. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect Vermillion’s technology and brand. In addition to Vermillion’s licensed Surfaced Enhanced Laser Desorption/Ionization (“SELDI”) technology, Vermillion has also submitted patent applications covering biomarkers that may have diagnostic or therapeutic utility. Vermillion’s patent applications may not result in additional patents being issued. If competitors engage in activities that infringe on Vermillion’s proprietary rights, our focus will be diverted and the Company may incur significant costs in asserting Vermillion’s rights. We may not be successful in asserting Vermillion’s proprietary rights, which could result in Vermillion’s patents being held invalid or a court holding that the competitor is not infringing, either of which would harm the Company’s competitive position. We cannot be sure that competitors will not design around Vermillion’s patented technology. The Company also relies upon the skills, knowledge and experience of its technical personnel. To help protect Vermillion’s rights, we require all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for the Company’s trade secrets, knowledge or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If any trade secret, knowledge or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If others successfully assert their proprietary rights against the Company, the Company may be precluded from making and selling its products or the Company may be required to obtain licenses to use their technology. The Company’s success depends on avoiding infringing on the proprietary technologies of others. If a third party were to assert claims that Vermillion is violating their patents, the Company might incur substantial costs defending itself in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. Any such lawsuit may not be decided in the Company’s favor, and if the Company is found liable, it may be subject to monetary damages or injunction against using the technology. Vermillion may also be required to obtain licenses under patents owned by third parties and such licenses may not be available to Vermillion on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 20 Table of Contents Current and future litigation against the Company could be costly and time consuming to defend. The Company is from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by the Company’s clients in connection with commercial disputes, employment claims made by current or former employees, and claims brought by third parties alleging infringement on their intellectual property rights. In addition, the Company may bring claims against third parties for infringement on Vermillion’s intellectual property rights. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert our attention and Company resources, which may seriously harm the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. An unfavorable judgment against the Company in any legal proceeding or claim could require the Company to pay monetary damages. In addition, an unfavorable judgment in which the counterparty is awarded equitable relief, such as an injunction, could have an adverse impact on Vermillion’s licensing and sublicensing activities, which could harm the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. On September 17, 2007, Molecular Analytical Systems (“MAS”) filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California for the County of Santa Clara naming Vermillion and Bio-Rad as defendants (the “State Court lawsuit”). Under the State Court lawsuit, MAS seeks an unspecified amount of damages and alleges, among other things, that Vermillion is in breach of its license agreement with MAS relating to SELDI technology as a result of Vermillion’s entry into a sublicense agreement with Bio-Rad. Vermillion filed its general denial and affirmative defense on April 1, 2008. The Company and Bio-Rad thereafter moved to compel arbitration of the State Court lawsuit, which motion was denied in the trial court. Thereafter, the Company appealed the denial of the motion to compel arbitration, which appeal had the effect of staying the State Court lawsuit, which stay was further extended in both the state trial and appellate courts when the Company filed on March 30, 2009, a Voluntary Petition for Relief under Chapter 11 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. MAS filed a proof of claim on June 30, 2009, in connection with the Company’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. The proof of claim mirrored the MAS lawsuit and asserted that the Company breached the Exclusive License Agreement by transferring certain technologies to Bio-Rad without obtaining MAS’s consent. MAS listed the value of its claim as in excess of $5,000,000. On December 28, 2009, the Company objected to MAS’s Proof of Claim in the Bankruptcy Court. On January 7, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Company’s plan of reorganization. Per the Court’s order confirming the plan, the Company’s bankruptcy case will be closed after a final, non-appealable judgment is entered on MAS’s claims. After the plan was confirmed, MAS filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court asking it to abstain from hearing its proof of claim and asked the Bankruptcy Court to grant relief from stay so that MAS could proceed with the State Court lawsuit in California. The Bankruptcy Court granted that motion on March 15, 2010. Thereafter, the California Court of Appeal has set oral argument on the Company’s appeal of the trial court order denying the Company’s motion to compel arbitration for June 17, 2010. Management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time. The Company’s failure to meet its purchase commitments, pursuant to a manufacture and supply agreement with Bio-Rad, could adversely affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Vermillion was a party to a manufacture and supply agreement with Bio-Rad, dated November 13, 2006, whereby Vermillion agreed to purchase from Bio-Rad the ProteinChip Systems and ProteinChip Arrays necessary to support Vermillion’s diagnostics efforts. Under the terms of the agreement, Vermillion was required to purchase a specified number of ProteinChip Systems and ProteinChip Arrays in each of the three years following the date of the agreement. Pursuant to a letter from the Company to Bio-Rad dated May 2, 2008, the Company exercised its right to terminate the agreement for convenience upon 180 days’ written notice. Consequently, termination of the agreement became effective on October 29, 2008. As part of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, Bio-Rad made a claim for approximately $1,000,000. Vermillion has accrued for the contingency in accordance with ASC 450 Contingencies, within general and administrative expense. If Vermillion is unable to renegotiate this claim, it would have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated cash flows. 21 Table of Contents If the Company or its suppliers fail to comply with FDA requirements, the Company may not be able to market its products and services and may be subject to stringent penalties; further improvements to the Company’s or its suppliers’ manufacturing operations may be required that would entail additional costs. The commercialization of Vermillion’s products could be delayed, halted or prevented by applicable FDA regulations. If the FDA were to view any of the Company’s actions as non-compliant, it could initiate enforcement actions, such as a warning letter and possible imposition of penalties. In addition, ASRs that Vermillion may provide will be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations (“QSR”), which establish extensive requirements for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement actions for Vermillion or its potential suppliers. Adverse FDA actions in any of these areas could significantly increase the Company’s expenses and limit its revenue and profitability. Although the Company is ISO 9001:2000 certified with respect to its manufacturing processes used for the Company’s previous ProteinChip products, Vermillion will need to undertake additional steps to maintain its operations in line with the FDA’s QSR requirements. Some components of the OVA1 Test are manufactured by other companies and Vermillion is required to maintain supply agreements with these companies. If these agreements are not satisfactory to the FDA, Vermillion will have to renegotiate these agreements. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on Vermillion’s ability to commercialize OVA1 Test. Vermillion’s suppliers’ manufacturing facilities will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. If and when Vermillion begins commercializing and assembling its products itself, Vermillion’s facilities will be subject to the same inspections. Vermillion or its suppliers may not satisfy such regulatory requirements, and any such failure to do so would have an adverse effect on Vermillion’s diagnostics efforts. Because the Company’s business is highly dependent on key executives and employees, our inability to recruit and retain these people could hinder our business plans. The Company is highly dependent on its executive officers and certain key employees. The Company’s executive officers and key employees are employed at will by the Company. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 2 employees in connection with the Bankruptcy Filing and in an effort to conserve cash, which included 1 employee in research and development and 1 employee in general and administrative. Since Vermillion’s emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11, the Company has reappointed its President and Chief Executive Officer, and Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer; appointed a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and a Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer; and has engaged additional consultants; however, minimal staffing and any inability of the Company to engage new executive officers or key employees could impact operations or delay or curtail Vermillion’s research, development and commercialization objectives. To continue Vermillion’s research and product development efforts, the Company needs people skilled in areas such as bioinformatics, biochemistry and information services. Competition for qualified employees is intense. Vermillion’s diagnostic efforts may cause it to have significant product liability exposure. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostic tests entails an inherent risk of product liability claims. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. The Company’s existing insurance will have to be increased in the future if the Company is successful at introducing diagnostic products and this will increase the Company’s costs. In the event that the Company is held liable for a claim against which it is not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of the Company’s insurance coverage, the Company may be required to make substantial payments. This may have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and may increase the volatility of Vermillion’s common stock price. Business interruptions could limit the Company’s ability to operate its business. The Company’s operations, as well as those of the collaborators on which the Company depends, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire; natural disasters, including earthquakes; computer viruses; human error; power shortages; telecommunication failures; international acts of terror; and similar events. The Company’s primary facility is located in Fremont, California, where it also has laboratories. Although we have certain business continuity plans in place, we have not established a formal comprehensive disaster recovery plan, and the Company’s back-up operations and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate it for losses the Company may suffer. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by the Company and require the Company to cease or curtail its operations. 22 Table of Contents Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely affect the Company’s future consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations enacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), are resulting in increased compliance costs. The Company, like all other public companies, is incurring expenses and diverting employees’ time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company is a smaller reporting company, and has completed the process of documenting its systems of internal control and has evaluated its systems of internal control. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company has been required to assess continuously its compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect to continue to devote the necessary resources, including internal and external resources, to support the Company’s assessment. In the future, if we identify one or more material weaknesses, or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that the Company’s report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in the Company’s financial reports, have an adverse effect on Vermillion’s stock price and/or subject the Company to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of our time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. Several proposals to reform the system of health care delivery in the U.S. are currently being considered by the federal and many state governments. Some of the reforms call for a government sponsored health plan. A number of states are also contemplating significant reform of their healthcare policies. A proposal for additional government-funded health care could subject expenditures for health care to governmental budget constraints and limits on spending. We cannot predict what healthcare policy reforms, if any, will be adopted or the effect that such adoption may have on our taxes, fees and other costs, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, proposals to implement fees or taxes on medical product manufacturers and clinical laboratories have been considered. At this point, it is not clear whether health reform legislation will be enacted by Congress and whether it will include any new taxes or fees on clinical laboratories or medical device manufacturers or reductions in laboratory payments under Medicare. If such fees, taxes, or reductions in payments are adopted, these could have a negative impact on our business. The Company is subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. The Company is subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the Company’s operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. The Company is also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs to remediate hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties affected by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances could adversely affect the value and the ability to transfer or encumber such property. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Vermillion’s Stock The Company is not current in its reporting obligations with the SEC, and the Company’s status as a public company could be revoked at any time. The Company is not current in its filing obligations with the SEC. While we are putting forth our best efforts to file all delinquent reports with the SEC, if we are unable to complete those filings before the SEC seeks to bring an administrative action against the Company, it is likely that the Company would cease being a public company. In that event, the liquidity of Vermillion’s common stock would be severely diminished and our ability to continue the Company’s operations could be materially affected. Vermillion’s common stock is trading over-the-counter on the Pink Quote electronic quotation system, and thus the liquidity of Vermillion’s common stock is low. On September 25, 2008, Vermillion’s common stock was delisted from and suspended from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market due to noncompliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), which requires, among other things, that listed companies have stockholders’ equity of at least $2,500,000. Vermillion’s common stock currently trades over-the-counter on Pink Quote, formerly known as Pink Sheets, electronic quotation system (“Pink Quote”) under the symbol “VRML.PK”. Quotes for stocks listed on Pink Quote are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers, and newspapers generally have very little coverage of stocks listed solely on the Pink Quote. Accordingly, prices for and coverage of securities traded solely on the Pink Quote may be difficult to obtain. In addition, stock traded solely on Pink Quote tend to have a limited number of market makers and a larger spread between the bid and ask prices than those listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Stock Market or the OTC Bulletin Board. All of these factors may cause holders of Vermillion’s common stock to be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Because Vermillion’s common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, Vermillion is subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. Consequently, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell Vermillion’s common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of Vermillion’s common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds, other than those investment funds which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities, will not invest in low-priced securities. Vermillion may not be able to be re-listed on NASDAQ Global Market, which could adversely affect trading and liquidity of the common stock. We intend to apply for the listing of Vermillion’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market as soon as practicable, assuming that the Company satisfies the applicable listing criteria. However, there is no assurance that the NASDAQ Global Market or any other national stock exchange will approve Vermillion’s common stock for listing as there is no assurance that the Company will satisfy the criteria for listing, or be approved for listing, on the NASDAQ Global Market or any other national stock exchange. Failure to list Vermillion’s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market could result in a less liquid market for existing and potential stockholders in which to trade shares of our common stock, which in turn could depress the trading price of our common stock, and adversely impact our ability to raise capital in the future. Vermillion’s stock price has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and an investment in Vermillion’s stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of Vermillion’s common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • Vermillion’s recent emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11, and the risks, uncertainties and difficulties related thereto; • failure to commercialize diagnostic tests and significantly increase revenue; • actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; • failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; 24 Table of Contents • announcements or introductions of new products or services or technological innovations by the Company or its competitors; • publicity regarding actual or potential discoveries of biomarkers by others; • comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; • announcements by the Company of significant acquisitions and divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • developments regarding Vermillion’s patents or other intellectual property or that of the Company’s competitors; • litigation or threat of litigation; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales of Vermillion’s common stock; • limited daily trading volume; • Vermillion’s delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market and subsequent quotation on the Pink Quotes; and • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies, in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of Vermillion’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against Vermillion could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our attention and Company resources. Anti-takeover provisions in Vermillion’s charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. Vermillion’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so might be deemed beneficial by Vermillion’s stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Vermillion’s common stock. Vermillion is also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company. The rights issued pursuant to Vermillion’s stockholder rights plan will become exercisable the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of Vermillion’s common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of Vermillion’s common stock. If the rights become exercisable, the holders of the rights (other than the person acquiring 15% or more of Vermillion’s common stock) will be entitled to acquire, in exchange for the rights’ exercise price, shares of Vermillion’s common stock or shares of any company in which the Company is merged, with a value equal to twice the rights’ exercise price. 25 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay dividends, Vermillion’s stockholders will benefit from an investment in Vermillion’s common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on Vermillion’s common stock. We currently intend to retain the Company’s future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of the Company’s business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in Vermillion’s common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that Vermillion’s common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which its investors purchased their shares. The Company may need to sell additional shares of Vermillion’s common stock or other securities in the future to meet the Company’s capital requirements. In such circumstances, or upon conversion of Vermillion’s senior convertible notes and exercises of currently outstanding options and warrants, the ownership interests of Vermillion’s stockholders prior to such sale, conversion or exercise could be substantially diluted. The possibility of dilution posed by shares available for future sale could reduce the market price of Vermillion’s common stock and could make it more difficult for the Company to raise funds through equity offerings in the future. As of December 31, 2008, Vermillion had 6,383,916 shares of its common stock outstanding and 7,797,405 shares of its common stock reserved for future issuance to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to the Company’s employee stock plans, which excludes 815,638 shares of Vermillion’s common stock that were subject to outstanding options. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, warrants to purchase 2,293,147 shares of Vermillion’s common stock were outstanding at exercise prices ranging from $9.25 to $25.00 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $10.79 per share. Also as of December 31, 2008, there were 825,000 shares of Vermillion’s common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 7.00% Notes. On December 11, 2008, the trustee of the Indenture and the holders of the $2,500,000 outstanding principal balance related to the 4.50% Notes and Vermillion agreed to extend the maturity date of the 4.50% Notes to September 1, 2009, and to extend the option of the holders to convert the 4.50% Notes into Vermillion’s common stock on or before August 31, 2009, with an adjusted conversion rate of 20 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the 4.50% Notes, which is equal to a conversion price of $50.00 per share. The adjusted conversion rate increased the shares of Vermillion’s common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 4.50% notes from 27,208 shares to 50,000 shares. From November 24, 2009 to January 22, 2010, Vermillion exchanged a total of 15,794 shares of its common stock for $305,000 in principal and $18,000 in unpaid interest related to the 4.50% Notes. On January 22, 2010, Vermillion paid the remaining unpaid principal balance of $2,195,000 and interest of $140,000 related to the 4.50% Notes. None of the 4.50% Notes are outstanding. From November 30, 2009 through January 22, 2010, Vermillion exchanged 428,906 shares of its common stock for $7,100,000 in principal and unpaid interest of $732,000 related to the 7.00% Notes. From October 21, 2009 through November 19, 2009, $4,400,000 in principal related to the 7.00% Notes was converted into 220,000 shares of Vermillion’s common stock. On January 22, 2010, Vermillion paid $362,000 of interest related to the 7.00% Notes. $5,000,000 in principal of the 7.00% Notes remain outstanding. From October 5, 2009, through April 12, 2010, Vermillion issued 990 shares of its common stock for $12,000 from the cash exercise of its warrants dated August 3, 2006, with an exercise price of $12.60 per share (the “August 3 Warrants”), and 3,496 shares of its common stock from the cashless exercise of 8,625 underlying common stock shares of its August 3 Warrants. From October 5, 2009, through April 12, 2010, Vermillion issued 990 shares of its common stock for $12,000 from the cash exercise of its warrants dated November 15, 2006, with an exercise price of $12.60 per share (the “November 15 Warrants”), and 3,486 shares of its common stock from the cashless exercise of 8,625 underlying common stock shares of its November 15 Warrants. From September 29, 2009, through March 4, 2010, Vermillion issued 392,120 shares of its common stock for $3,627,000 from the cash exercise of its warrants dated August 29, 2007, with an exercise price of $9.25 per share (the “2007 Warrants”), and 521,213 shares of its common stock from the cashless exercise of 1,435,678 underlying common stock shares of its 2007 Warrants. 26 Table of Contents The exercise or conversion of all or a portion of these securities would dilute the ownership interests of Vermillion’s stockholders. Furthermore, future sales of substantial amounts of Vermillion’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of Vermillion’s common stock and the value of the notes. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 