ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below, as well as all of the other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties which we are currently unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also adversely affect our business. We expect to continue to incur net losses in 2006 and 2007. If we are unable to significantly increase our revenues or significantly decrease our expenses, we may never achieve profitability. From our inception in December 1993 through December 31, 2005, we have generated cumulative revenue from continuing operations of approximately $175.1 million and have incurred net losses of approximately $195.8 million. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and expect these losses to continue for at least the next several quarters. For example, we experienced net losses of approximately $25.8 million in 2001, $29.1 million in 2002, $36.7 million in 2003, $19.8 million in 2004, and $35.4 million in 2005. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative costs associated with our operations. These costs have exceeded our gross profit which, to date, has been generated principally from product sales. We expect to incur additional operating losses and these losses may be substantial. We may never achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 20 If we are unable to further establish the utility of our products, our products and services may not achieve market acceptance. The commercial success of our ProteinChip Systems and Arrays depends upon validating their utility for important biological applications and increasing their market acceptance by researchers in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic and government research centers and clinical reference laboratories. If our products are not demonstrated to be more effective in providing commercially useful protein information than other existing technologies, it could seriously undermine market acceptance of our products and reduce the likelihood that we will ever achieve profitability. If we fail to successfully market the Series 4000, expand sales of our ProteinChip Systems, and develop new and improved applications for our products, our revenue will not increase and we will not achieve profitability. Our success depends on our ability to continue to expand commercial sales of our ProteinChip Systems and Arrays, and develop new and improved applications for this platform. In particular, our success will depend on our success in marketing and growing sales of our ProteinChip System, Series 4000. If this system does not perform in accordance with market expectations, it is unlikely that we will be able to expand our sales. We may encounter difficulties in developing new, higher performance products or producing our current proteomic systems on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce them economically, we may fail to achieve expected performance levels, or we may fail to gain industry acceptance of such products. We may experience increased manufacturing costs or failure rates for our ProteinChip Systems and Arrays that are higher than we anticipated, particularly for new products that are introduced. Our products and the components used in our products are based on complex technologies and we are currently in the process of developing new versions of certain products. We may not be able to cost effectively manufacture such new products. In addition, it is difficult to predict the failure rate of new products. If our manufacturing costs are higher than anticipated or if the failure rates for our products are higher than anticipated, resulting in increased warranty claims and increased costs associated with servicing those claims, our gross profit will decrease. We may also incur additional costs associated with a product retrofit initiated by one of our suppliers for a pump used in older model ProteinChip Systems. We may not succeed in developing diagnostic products and even if we do succeed in developing diagnostic products, they may never achieve significant commercial market acceptance. There is considerable risk in developing diagnostic products based on our biomarker discovery efforts as potential tests may fail to validate results in larger clinical studies and may not achieve acceptable levels of clinical sensitivity and specificity. If we do succeed in developing diagnostic tests with acceptable performance characteristics, we may not succeed in achieving significant commercial market acceptance for those tests. Our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products that we may develop, such as tests, kits and devices, will depend on several factors, including: · our ability to convince the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their advantages over existing diagnostic products; · our ability to further establish business relationships with other diagnostic companies that can assist in the commercialization of these products; and · the agreement by Medicare and third-party payers to provide full or partial reimbursement coverage for our products, the scope and extent of which will affect patients’ willingness to pay for our products and will likely heavily influence physicians’ decisions to recommend our products. 21 These factors present obstacles to significant commercial acceptance of our potential diagnostic products, which we will have to spend substantial time and money to overcome, if we can do so at all. Our inability to successfully do so would prevent us from generating additional revenue from diagnostic products and we could be unable to develop a profitable business. Our ability to commercialize our potential diagnostic tests is heavily dependent on our strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics. On July 22, 2005, Ciphergen and Quest Diagnostics entered into a strategic alliance which will focus on commercializing up to three assays chosen from Ciphergen’s pipeline over the next three years. If this strategic alliance does not continue for its full term or if Quest Diagnostics fails to proceed to diligently perform its obligations as part of the strategic alliance, such as independently developing, validating and commercializing potential diagnostics tests, our ability to commercialize our potential diagnostic tests would be seriously harmed. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund diagnostic development programs or research programs on our own, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract additional clients for our Biomarker Discovery Center services and satisfy these clients, we may not be successful in furthering adoption of our products and technology or generating additional revenue through commercial rights related to biomarker discoveries. One element of our business strategy is to operate Biomarker Discovery Center laboratories in part through partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as academic and government research centers in order to increase adoption of our products and technology. Although we are currently in negotiation with additional potential partners and clients, to date we have entered into only a few such arrangements. Failure to enter into additional arrangements or expand existing relationships could limit adoption of our products and prevent us from generating additional revenue through commercialization of biomarker discoveries. New product introductions can result in disruptions to our revenue patterns and increased sales and marketing costs, and may involve manufacturing challenges that can negatively impact our gross margin. We have introduced, and we may introduce in the future, new versions of our ProteinChip Systems, Arrays and Software. New product introductions entail training and educating our customers and prospective customers about the new features, protocols and technology encompassed by the new products. This could disrupt our revenue patterns or temporarily lengthen our sales cycles to a greater extent than it would at larger companies with broader product offerings. New product introductions may temporarily increase our sales and marketing costs. Manufacturing new products inherently runs the risk that initial costs may be high as new production processes are introduced, and it is possible that new products may involve quality issues that negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, the introduction of new products makes the continuing sales of previous product versions difficult and may require significant price discounts on such products. If we fail to continue to develop the technologies we base our products on, we may not be able to successfully foster further adoption of our products and services as an industry standard or develop new product offerings. The technologies we use for our ProteinChip Systems and related product offerings are new and complex technologies, which are subject to change as new discoveries are made. New discoveries and further progress in our field are essential if we are to maintain and expand the adoption of our product offerings. Development of these technologies remains a substantial risk to us due to various factors including the scientific challenges involved, our ability to find and collaborate with others working in our field, and competing technologies, which may prove more successful than ours. In addition, we have 22 reduced our research and development headcount and expenditures, which may adversely affect our ability to further develop our technology. If we are unable to provide our customers with software that enables the integration and analysis of large volumes of data, the acceptance and use of our products may be limited. The successful commercial research application of our products requires that they enable researchers to process and analyze large volumes of data and to integrate the results into other phases of their research. The nature of our software enables a level of integration and analysis that is adequate for many projects. However, if we do not continue to develop and improve the capabilities of our ProteinChip Software to perform more complex analyses of customer samples and to meet increasing customer expectations, market acceptance of our products may not increase and we could lose our current customers, which might adversely impact our revenues and we could be unable to develop a profitable business. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a number of causes outside our control. Because the timing of our product orders can vary, we may not be able to reliably predict quarterly revenue and profitability. Our operating results can also vary substantially in any period depending on the mix of products sold. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, as well as the seasonal and cyclical nature of our markets. Historically, a relatively large percentage of our sales have arrived in the last month of each quarter, and often towards the end of such month. Accordingly, a short delay in receiving an order, shipping product, or recognizing revenue from such order may result in substantial quarterly fluctuations in revenue and earnings. A significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our significant sales, research and development, administration and manufacturing costs. If we cannot adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall, this may magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results could fluctuate, and such fluctuation could cause the market price of our common stock and convertible senior notes to decline. Results from one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. If we are unable to reduce our lengthy sales cycle, our ability to become profitable will be harmed. Our ability to obtain customers for our products depends in significant part upon the perception that our products and services can help enable protein biomarker discovery, characterization and assay development. From the time we make initial contact with a potential customer until we receive a binding purchase order typically takes between a few weeks to a year or more. Our sales effort requires the effective demonstration of the benefits of our products and may require significant training, sometimes of many different departments within a potential customer. These departments might include research and development personnel and key management. In addition, we may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each customer. We may expend substantial funds and management effort and may not be able to successfully sell our products or services in a short enough time to achieve profitability. We will need to raise additional capital in the future, and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We currently believe that current cash resources together with existing debt facilities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital sooner in order to develop new or enhanced products or services, increase our efforts to discover biomarkers and develop them into diagnostic products, or acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. If we are unable to obtain financing, or to obtain it on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully execute our business plan. 23 Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards will affect our reported results of operations. For example, the mandated change effective for us on January 1, 2006 requiring that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method or changes in existing taxation rules related to stock options will have a negative effect on our reported results. The Financial Accounting Standards Board allows a choice of valuation models to estimate the fair value of employee stock options. These models, including the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, use varying methods and inputs and may yield significantly different results. Under the new standard, our estimate of compensation expense will require a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns (expected life of the options), future forfeitures and related tax effects. Because our business is highly dependent on key executives, scientists, engineers and sales people, our inability to recruit and retain these people could hinder our business expansion plans. We are highly dependent on our executive officers, senior scientists, engineers and sales people. In certain countries, a few key individuals are important to our local success. Our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we lose the services of any of these people. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts, we need people skilled in areas such as bioinformatics, biochemistry, information services, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We will not be able to expand our business if we are unable to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. During 2004 and 2005, we took steps to reduce our headcount and our voluntary employee turnover has increased from historic levels. In addition, the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised), “Share-Based Payment”, on January 1, 2006, which will require us to expense all stock-based compensation, may require us to change the manner in which we compensate our employees, which could considerably impact our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to successfully expand our limited manufacturing capacity for ProteinChip readers and arrays, we may encounter manufacturing and quality control problems as we increase our efforts to meet demand. We currently have only one manufacturing facility at which we produce limited quantities of our ProteinChip Arrays and ProteinChip Readers. Some aspects of our manufacturing processes may not be easily scalable to allow for production in larger volumes, resulting in higher than anticipated material, labor and overhead costs per unit. As a result, manufacturing and quality control problems may arise as we increase our level of production. We may not be able to increase our manufacturing capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner and we may experience delays in manufacturing new products. If we are unable to consistently manufacture our products on a timely basis because of these or other factors, we will not be able to meet anticipated demand. As a result, we may lose sales and fail to generate increased revenue and become profitable. We face intense competition in our current and potential markets and if our competitors develop new technologies or products, our products may not achieve market acceptance and may fail to capture market share. Competition in our existing and potential markets is intense and we expect it to increase. Currently, our principal competition comes from other technologies that are used to perform many of the same functions for which we market our ProteinChip System. The major technologies that compete with our ProteinChip System are liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and 2D-gel electrophoresis-mass spectrometry. In the life science research market, competitive protein research tools and services are currently provided by a number of companies, including several which are larger than Ciphergen. In the 24 diagnostics market, there are several larger direct competitors. In many instances, our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations. Additionally, our potential customers may internally develop competing technologies. If we fail to compete effectively with these technologies and products, or if competitors develop significant improvements in protein detection systems, develop systems that are easier to use, or introduce comparable products that are less expensive, our products may not achieve market acceptance and our sales may decrease. Shareholder litigation may have a negative financial impact on us and require management time and attention. Ciphergen and certain of its current and former officers have been named as defendants in a securities class action complaint filed on December 5, 2005, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California. The complaint has been brought on behalf of all persons who purchased Ciphergen’s common stock from August 8, 2005, when we issued a press release announcing unaudited financial results for the second quarter of 2005, through November 16, 2005, when we announced our intention to restate those financial results. Dealing with this matter may require considerable management time and attention, and may result in a negative financial impact on us. If we are unable to maintain our licensed rights to the SELDI technology, we may lose the right to produce ProteinChip Systems and products based on the SELDI technology and the right to provide services and information related thereto. Our commercial success depends on our ability to maintain our sublicenses to the SELDI technology. All of our revenue from continuing operations was derived from SELDI-based products within the scope of the Baylor SELDI patents. Pursuant to the settlement of the litigation between Ciphergen, Molecular Analytical Systems (“MAS”), LumiCyte and T. William Hutchens, MAS cannot terminate Ciphergen’s rights under the sublicenses. However, Baylor College of Medicine has the right to terminate its license with MAS in case of material breach by MAS. If the agreements between Baylor College of Medicine and MAS were terminated and we were unable to obtain a license to these rights from Baylor College of Medicine, we would be precluded from selling any SELDI-based products within the scope of the Baylor SELDI patents, we would no longer generate revenue from the sale of these products and we would have to revise our business direction and strategy. If the government grants a license to the SELDI technology to others, it may harm our business. Some of the inventions covered by our sublicense agreements with MAS were developed under a grant from an agency of the U.S. government and therefore, pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, the government has a paid-up, nonexclusive nontransferable license to those inventions and will be able in limited circumstances to grant a license to others on reasonable terms. We are not aware of any basis for the government to exercise such rights, but if circumstances change and the government exercises such rights, our business could be harmed. If we fail to maintain our rights to utilize intellectual property directed to diagnostic biomarkers, we may not be able to offer diagnostic tests using those biomarkers. One aspect of our business plan is to develop diagnostic tests based on certain biomarkers which we have the right to utilize through licenses with our academic collaborators, such as The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and University College London. In some cases, our collaborators own the entire right to the biomarkers. In other cases we co-own the biomarkers with our collaborator. If, for some reason, we lose our license to biomarkers owned entirely by our collaborators, we may not be able to use those biomarkers in diagnostic tests. If we lose our exclusive license to biomarkers co-owned by us and our collaborators, our collaborators may license their share of the intellectual property to a third party that may compete with us in offering the diagnostic test. 25 We have drawn funds from the $10 million secured line of credit provided by Quest Diagnostics. If we fail to achieve the loan forgiveness milestones set forth therein, we will be responsible for full repayment of the loan. In connection with the strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics, Quest Diagnostics agreed to provide us with a $10 million secured line of credit, from which we had drawn a total of $2.5 million as of December 31, 2005. Borrowings may be made in monthly increments of up to approximately $417,000 over a two year period, with accrued interest to be paid monthly. Funds from this collateralized line of credit may only be used to pay certain costs and expenses directly related to the strategic alliance, with forgiveness of the repayment obligations based upon our achievement of milestones related to the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of laboratory tests. Should we fail to achieve these milestones, we would be responsible for the repayment of the outstanding principal amount of any such loans on or before July 22, 2010. If a competitor infringes our proprietary rights, we may lose any competitive advantage we may have as a result of diversion of management time, enforcement costs and the loss of the exclusivity of our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets to protect our technology and brand. In addition to our licensed SELDI technology, we also have submitted patent applications directed to subsequent technological improvements and application of the SELDI technology, including patent applications covering biomarkers that may have diagnostic or therapeutic utility. Our patent applications may not result in additional patents being issued. If competitors engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the competitor is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. We cannot be sure that competitors will not design around our patented technology. We also rely upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. If others successfully assert their proprietary rights against us, we may be precluded from making and selling our products or we may be required to obtain licenses to use their technology. Our success also depends on avoiding infringing on the proprietary technologies of others. If a third party were to assert claims that we are violating their patents, we might incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. Any such lawsuit may not be decided in our favor, and if we are found liable, we may be subject to monetary damages or injunction against using their technology. We may also be required to obtain licenses under their patents and such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We rely on single-source suppliers for many components of our ProteinChip Systems as well as processing services for our ProteinChip Arrays, and if we are unable to obtain these components and processing services, we would be harmed and our operating results would suffer. We depend on many single-source suppliers for the necessary raw materials and components required to manufacture our products. We also rely on some single-source subcontractors for certain outsourced manufacturing services. Some of these suppliers are small companies without extensive financial resources. 26 Because of the limited quantities of products we currently manufacture, it is not economically feasible to qualify and maintain alternate vendors for most components of our ProteinChip Readers and processing services for our ProteinChip Arrays. We have occasionally experienced delays in receiving raw materials, components and services, resulting in manufacturing delays. If we are unable to procure the necessary raw materials, components or services from our current vendors, we will have to arrange new sources of supply and our raw materials and components shipments could be delayed, harming our ability to manufacture our products, and our ability to sustain or increase revenue could be harmed. As a result, our costs could increase and our profitability could be harmed. We may incur additional costs due to recalls made by our suppliers of parts integrated into some of our products. In July 2005, we were notified by a supplier about a potential safety hazard in certain pumps used in some older model ProteinChip Systems. This product recall does not affect our current Series 4000 line. To remedy the potential safety hazard, the supplier is recommending that a capacitor in the pumps it supplied be replaced, and is making the requisite parts available to us at no cost. While we believe this component part retrofit can be easily performed by our customers, or that Ciphergen personnel can perform the work during regularly scheduled service calls, unexpected difficulties with this product retrofit or possibly other unanticipated product recalls in the future by our suppliers could result in additional costs and decrease our gross profit. Additionally, such events could cause disruptions to our customers and harm Ciphergen’s reputation. If we fail to maintain certain distribution and patent license agreements, we may have to stop selling certain products and this may harm our revenue. We sell certain products under either OEM or distribution or patent license agreements. These include arrangements with Beckman Coulter with respect to selling a customized version of the Biomek 3000 Workstation, with Salford Systems with respect to selling Biomarker Patterns software, and with Applied Biosystems / MDS Sciex with respect to selling our ProteinChip Tandem MS Interfaces. If we fail to maintain or extend after their expiration the underlying agreements with these companies, we would have to stop selling these particular products and may have to seek alternate products to sell, as a result of which our sales may be harmed. If there are reductions in research funding, the ability of our existing and prospective customers to purchase our products could be seriously harmed. A significant portion of our products are sold to universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions where funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health. Government funding for research and development has fluctuated significantly in the past due to changes in congressional appropriations. Research funding by the U.S. government or the governments of other countries may be significantly reduced in the future. Any such reductions may seriously harm the ability of our existing and prospective research customers to purchase our products or may reduce the number of ProteinChip Arrays used. Limitations in funding for commercial, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions that are the potential customers for our ProteinChip Systems and Arrays, and general cost containment pressures for biomedical research may limit our ability to sell our products and services. If we or our future potential partners fail to comply with FDA requirements, we may not be able to market our products and services and may be subject to stringent penalties; further improvements to our manufacturing operations may be required that would entail additional costs. Currently, the FDA does not actively regulate clinical laboratory tests, or “home brews”, that have been developed and used by the laboratory to conduct in-house testing. “Active ingredients” (known as “analyte specific reagents” or “ASRs”) that are sold to laboratories for use in tests developed in-house by 27 clinical laboratories are generally exempt from the FDA’s pre-market review requirements. We believe that ASRs that we may provide will fall within those exemptions. However, the FDA has publicly stated it is reevaluating its ASR policy and we expect that revisions to FDA policies may be implemented in the future that may have the effect of increasing the regulatory burden on manufacturers of these devices. The commercialization of our products could be impacted by being delayed, halted or prevented. If the FDA were to view any of our actions as non-compliant, it could initiate enforcement action such as a warning letter and possible imposition of penalties. Finally, ASRs that we may provide will be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the FDA’s QSRs, which establish extensive regulations for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement action for us or our potential partners. Adverse FDA action in any of these areas could significantly increase our expenses and limit our revenue and profitability. Although we are ISO 9001:2000 certified in our ProteinChip manufacturing processes, we will need to undertake additional steps to maintain our operations in line with FDA QSR requirements. Our manufacturing facilities will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies. We have not yet been subject to an FDA inspection. We may not satisfy such regulatory requirements, and any such failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our diagnostics efforts. Our diagnostic efforts may cause us to have significant product liability exposure. The testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical diagnostics entails an inherent risk of product liability claims. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Our existing insurance will have to be increased in the future if we are successful at introducing diagnostic products and this will increase our costs. In the event that we are held liable for a claim against which we are not indemnified or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, our liabilities could exceed our total assets. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations as well as those of the collaborators on which we depend are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, computer viruses, human error, power shortages, telecommunication failures, international acts of terror and similar events. Our only production facility is located in Fremont, California, where we also have laboratories. Although we have certain business continuity plans in place, we have not established a formal comprehensive disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses we may suffer. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely impact our future financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq National Market listing requirements, are resulting in increased compliance costs. Specifically, we undertook significant efforts and incurred great expense to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 28 Our business is subject to risks from international operations. We conduct business globally. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; and natural disasters. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future international business. In certain countries, a few key individuals are important to our local success. In addition, China does not currently have a comprehensive and highly developed legal system, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights. As a result, enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and the implementation and interpretation of such laws may be inconsistent. Such inconsistency could lead to piracy and degradation of our intellectual property protection. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. With our ownership of Ciphergen Biosystems KK, a significant percentage of our net sales are exposed to foreign currency risk. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may reduce the size of our target market and cause a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is generally expected to occur. Planned or future consolidation among our current and potential customers could decrease or slow sales of our technology and reduce the markets our products target. Any such consolidation could limit the market for our products and seriously harm our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. We may not successfully resolve problems encountered in connection with any future acquisitions or strategic investments. In July 2001, we acquired the BioSepra process chromatography business from Invitrogen Corporation, which we subsequently sold in November 2004. In August 2002, we increased our ownership interest in Ciphergen Biosystems KK, the Japanese joint venture we formed with Sumitomo Corporation in 1999, from 30% to 70%, and in March 2004, we further increased our ownership to 100%. In the event of any future acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investments, we could: · issue stock that would dilute ownership of our then-existing stockholders; · incur charges for the impairment of the value of investments or acquired assets; or · incur amortization expense related to intangible assets. If we fail to achieve the financial and strategic benefits of past and future acquisitions or strategic investments, our operating results will suffer. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous other risks, including: · difficulties integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with ours; · failure to achieve targeted synergies; · unanticipated costs and liabilities; · potential impairment of goodwill; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; 29 · adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or those of the acquired organization; and · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of nonhazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating hazardous substances or petroleum products on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances could adversely affect the value and the ability to transfer or encumber such property. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws and Stockholder Rights Plan and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Stockholder Rights Plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be deemed beneficial by our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. The rights issued pursuant to our Stockholder Rights Plan will become exercisable the tenth day after a person or group announces acquisition of 15% or more of our common stock or announces commencement of a tender or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in ownership by the person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, the holders of the rights (other than the person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock) will be entitled to acquire, in exchange for the rights’ exercise price, shares of our common stock or shares of any company in which we are merged, with a value equal to twice the rights’ exercise price. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our investor purchased his shares. 30 Risks Related to Our Convertible Senior Notes and Common Stock Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. In connection with the sale of the convertible senior notes (the “notes”), we incurred $30 million of indebtedness. As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: · make it difficult for us to make payments on the notes; · make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; · make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The notes are unsecured, and future indebtedness could effectively rank senior to the notes. The notes are unsecured and will rank equal in right of payment with our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The notes will be effectively subordinated to any secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets that secure the indebtedness. The notes will also be “structurally subordinated” to all indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables and lease obligations, of our existing and future subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or upon acceleration of the notes, payment on the notes could be less, ratably, than on any secured indebtedness. We may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the notes then outstanding. The indenture governing the notes does not prohibit or limit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness and other liabilities, or from pledging assets to secure such indebtedness and liabilities. The incurrence of additional indebtedness and, in particular, the granting of a security interest to secure the indebtedness, could adversely affect our ability to pay our obligations on the notes. We anticipate that we may incur additional indebtedness from time to time in the future. The notes are not protected by restrictive covenants, including financial covenants. Neither we nor our subsidiaries are restricted from incurring additional debt, including senior debt, or liabilities under the indenture. In addition, the indenture does not restrict us or any of our subsidiaries from paying dividends or issuing or repurchasing securities. If we or our subsidiaries were to incur additional debt or liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on the notes could be adversely affected. We may be unable to repay, repurchase or redeem the notes. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the notes will become due and payable by us. Upon a change in control, as defined in the indenture, note holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. We may not have enough funds or be able to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal at maturity or to repurchase the notes on a change in control. Future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may restrict the redemption or repurchase of the notes and provide that a change in control constitutes an event of default. If the maturity date or a change in control occurs at a time when we are prohibited from repaying or repurchasing the notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to purchase the notes or we could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain the necessary consents or cannot refinance the debt on favorable terms, or at all, we will be unable to repay or repurchase the notes. Our failure to repay the notes at maturity or repurchase tendered notes would 31 constitute an event of default under the indenture, which might constitute a default under the terms of our other debt. Our obligation to offer to purchase the notes upon a change in control would not necessarily afford note holders protection in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction involving us. There may not be an active, liquid market for our common stock or the notes. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s National Market. Investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active. An active trading market for the notes may not be maintained. If an active market for the notes is not sustained, the trading price of the notes could decline significantly. The notes are eligible for trading on the PORTAL Market. We do not intend to apply for listing of the notes on any securities exchange. The notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes may be subject to restrictions on resale. We entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the notes, pursuant to which we filed a shelf registration statement covering the resale of the notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes. If the effectiveness of the registration statement is not maintained, the liquidity and price of the notes and common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes would be adversely affected and note holders could lose all or part of their investment. At various times during 2003, 2004 and 2005, the price at which our common stock could be purchased on the Nasdaq National Market was lower than the conversion price of the notes, and our stock price may be lower than the conversion price in the future. Prior to electing to convert notes, the note holder should compare the price at which our common stock is trading in the market to the conversion price of the notes. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CIPH. The initial conversion price of the notes is approximately $9.19 per share. The market prices of our securities are subject to significant fluctuations. Such fluctuations, as well as economic conditions generally, may adversely affect the market price of our securities, including our common stock and the notes. The notes may not be rated or may receive a lower rating than anticipated. We believe it is unlikely that the notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies rates the notes and assigns the notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, reduces their rating in the future or indicates that it will have their ratings on the notes under surveillance or review with possible negative implications, the market price of the notes and our common stock would be harmed. In addition, a ratings downgrade could adversely affect our ability to access capital. Our stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value, adversely affecting the value of the notes or the shares into which those notes may be converted. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; · failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts; · announcements of new products or services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · developments regarding actual or potential discoveries of biomarkers by us or others; · comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; 32 · conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science industries; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · developments regarding our patents or other intellectual property or that of our competitors; · litigation or threat of litigation; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of our common stock; · limited daily trading volume; and · economic and other external factors or disasters or crises. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of life science companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, the value of the notes and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the notes. As of December 31, 2005, we had: · 35,998,881 shares of common stock outstanding; · 6,333,504 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of options outstanding under our stock option plans with a weighted average exercise price of $4.46 per share; · in addition to the shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options referred to in the preceding bullet point, 425,797 shares reserved for future issuance under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans; · a warrant outstanding for 2,200,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $3.50 per share; and · 25,000 shares of common stock potentially issuable to Gail Page, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ciphergen, contingent upon the achievement of a specific diagnostic milestone. Because the notes are convertible into common stock only at a specific conversion price, a decline in our common stock price may cause the value of the notes to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 