ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX CERTIFICATIONS 2 Item 1. BUSINESS (a) General Development of the Business Canterbury Park Holding Corporation (the “Company”) hosts pari-mutuel wagering on live thoroughbred and quarter horse racing at its facilities in Shakopee, Minnesota (the “Racetrack”) and pari-mutuel wagering on races held at out-of-state racetracks that are televised simultaneously at the Racetrack (“simulcasting”). In addition, the Company hosts “unbanked” card games. The Company also derives revenues from related services and activities, such as concessions, parking, advertising, admissions, programs, a recreational vehicle park and from other entertainment events held at the Racetrack. The Company was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota on March 24, 1994 and acquired the Racetrack on March 29, 1994. On May 6, 1994 the Company commenced simulcasting operations, which now are generally conducted seven days per week. Beginning in May 1995, the Company began hosting live horse racing and related pari-mutuel wagering on a seasonal basis, generally from mid May to late August or early September. On April 19, 2000, the Company opened its Canterbury Card Club (the “Card Club”). At the Card Club patrons compete against each other in various unbanked card games. The Card Club operates under laws adopted in 1999 (the “Card Club Legislation”) and is regulated by the Minnesota Racing Commission (the “MRC”). Under the Card Club Legislation, the Company is authorized to host card games at up to 50 tables and receive a percentage of the wagers or a fee from the players as its revenue for providing the facility and services. The Card Club Legislation requires that the Racetrack’s purse fund and the State of Minnesota Breeders’ Fund receive a minimum of 10% to 14% of the gross revenue generated by the Card Club The Company maintains a website at www.canterburypark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our periodic reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge on our website. (b) Financial Information About Segments The Company divides its business into three segments: card club, horse racing and concessions. The card club segment represents operations of the Canterbury Card Club. The horse racing segment represents simulcast and live racing operations, and the concessions segment represents food and beverage services for simulcast and live racing, the Card Club, and during special events. Further information regarding the Company’s business segments is set forth in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10K and such information is incorporated herein by reference. (c) Narrative Description of Business (i) Card Club Operations The Card Club is open 24 hours per day, seven days per week, offering two types of unbanked card games: Poker and Casino Games. Poker games, including Texas Hold ‘Em, 7-Card Stud and Omaha, with table limits ranging between $2 and $60, are currently offered on a maximum of 34 tables in the poker room. In the Canterbury Card Club, a dealer, employed by the Company, regulates the play of the game at each table and deals the cards, but does not participate in play. In poker games, the sponsor (the Company), is allowed to deduct a percentage from the accumulated wagers and impose other charges for hosting the activity, but does not have an interest in the outcome of a game. The sponsor may add additional prizes, awards, or money to any game for promotional purposes. The Company collects a “rake” of 10% of each addition to the “pot”, up to a maximum of $4.00 or $4.50 per hand, depending on the game, as its collection revenue. In addition, poker games offer progressive jackpots 3 for most games. In order to fund the jackpot pool, the dealer withholds $1.00 from each final pot, which exceeds the minimum of $15. Casino Games, including Pai Gow Poker, Blackjack, Caribbean Stud, Let-It-Ride, Three Card Poker and Four Card Poker, are currently offered at 16 tables and are played using a “player pool” system. “Player pool” means a wagering system, in which wagers lost in card games, are accumulated into a pool for purposes of enhancing the total amount paid back to winning players. In such instances, the sponsor may only serve as custodian of the player pool and may not have an active interest in any card game. In the casino games area of the Card Club, the amount that the dealer “wins” or “loses” during the course of play is accumulated in a “Player Pool” to be used to repay players in the form of promotions, giveaways, prizes or by other means. The Company also takes a “rake” of $.50 to $3.00 per wager, depending on the game and size of wager, for the Company’s collection revenue. The only casino game to offer a progressive jackpot is Caribbean Stud. The player has the option of playing the jackpot, and has the opportunity to win some, or all, of the jackpot amount depending upon his hand. (ii) Horse Racing Operations The Company’s horse racing operations consist of year-round pari-mutuel wagering on simulcast horse races (“simulcasting”) and live horse races (“live meets”) held on a seasonal basis beginning in May and concluding in September. Thoroughbred and quarter horse racing is conducted during the live meet. The Company has also conducted two-day harness racing live meets from time to time. Live Racing. The Company conducts live horse racing at its facility generally from mid-May until early September each year. In 2005 the Racetrack hosted 68 days of live racing beginning May 7th and concluding September 5th. The meet included 46 days of mixed Thoroughbred and Quarter Horse racing and 22 days of Thoroughbred only racing. The 2004 live meet was 67 days long, beginning May 14th and ending September 6th, and consisted of 35 days of mixed Thoroughbred and Quarter Horse racing and 32 days of Thoroughbred only racing Currently, Minnesota law requires the Racetrack to schedule a minimum of 125 days of live racing annually, unless the MHBPA agrees to a lesser number of live racing days. Since 1995, the MHBPA has agreed to waive the 125-day requirement and allow the Company to run a live meet of at least 50 days each year. After 2006, no assurance can be given that the MHBPA will agree to a shorter live meet than the 125-day statutory minimum. If the MHBPA does not agree to a live meet shorter than 125 days, the Company’s operations could be adversely impacted by a decrease in the daily purses and potential reduction in quality of horses, attendance and overall handle, as well as increased operating expenses. Simulcasting. Simulcasting is the process by which live horse races held at one facility (the “host track”) are transmitted simultaneously to other locations that allow patrons at each receiving location (the “guest track”) to place wagers on races transmitted from the host track. Monies are collected at the guest track and the information with respect to the total amount wagered is electronically transmitted to the host track. All of the amounts wagered at guest tracks are combined into the appropriate pools at the host track with the final odds and payouts determined based upon all the monies in the respective pools. The Company offers “full card” simulcast racing (broadcasting of another racetrack’s entire daily live racing program) from up to 20 racetracks per day, seven days a week, 364 days per year, including Churchill Downs, Hollywood Park, Santa Anita, Gulfstream Park, Belmont Park and Saratoga Racecourse. In addition, races of national interest, such as the Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes and Breeders’ Cup, supplement the regular simulcast program. The Company regularly evaluates its agreements with other racetracks in order to offer the most popular simulcast signals of live horse racing that are feasible to offer at the Racetrack. 4 Under applicable provisions of federal and state law, the Racetrack must obtain the consent of the state’s regulatory authority, and the organization which represents the majority of the owners and trainers of the horses who race at the Racetrack, with respect to simulcast operations both as a host and guest track. In Minnesota such consent must be obtained from the Minnesota Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association (the “MHBPA”) and the MRC. (iii) Special Events While pari-mutuel horse racing and Card Club operations are the Company’s principal businesses, the Company’s facilities are capable of being used for multiple purposes. In an effort to more fully utilize the property and to generate additional revenues, the Company has increasingly used its grandstand, grounds and parking lot for special events and rentals. While the use of the Company’s facilities for particular special events and purposes varies from year to year, the following are among the types of events and purposes for which the Company’s facilities have been used: snowmobile races, major arts and crafts shows, trade shows, concerts, motorcycle races, fund raisers, automobile shows and competitions, vehicle and boat storage, and private parties. (iv) Sources of Revenue General. The Company’s revenues are principally derived from Card Club operations, live and simulcast horseracing and related activities, food and beverage sales and other sources. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 revenues from Card Club operations represented 53.6% of total revenues. Horseracing and related activities, including pari-mutuel revenue, admissions, parking and publication sales, generated 32.0% of total revenues in 2005. Card Club Operations The Company receives revenues from its Card Club operations, which run 24 hours per day, seven days per week. The Company currently receives collection revenue from 34 poker tables and 16 tables offering casino games. Under Minnesota law, the Company is required to pay 10% of the first $6 million of gross Card Club revenues as purse monies. After meeting the $6,000,000 threshold, the Company must pay 14% of gross Card Club revenues as purse monies, although by agreement with the MHBPA the Company paid 14% of Card Club collection revenues into the purse fund in 2003 and 2002 and 15% of Card Club revenues in 2005 and 2004. Of funds allocated for purses, the Company pays 10% of the purse monies to the State of Minnesota Breeders’ Fund, with the remaining 90% of purse monies divided between thoroughbred (90%), quarter horse (9%) and standard bred (1%) purse funds Horseracing and Related Activities Pari-mutuel wagering – General. In pari-mutuel wagering, bettors wager against each other in a pool, rather than against the operator of the facility or with preset odds. From the total amount wagered or “handle,” the Minnesota Pari-Mutuel Horse Racing Act (the “Racing Act”) specifies the maximum percentage, referred to as the “takeout,” which may be withheld by the Racetrack, with the balance returned to the winning bettors. The takeout constitutes one of the Racetrack’s primary sources of operating revenue. From the takeout, funds are paid to the State of Minnesota for pari-mutuel taxes, with additional amounts set aside for purses and for the “Breeders’ Fund,” which is a fund apportioned by the MRC among various purposes related to Minnesota’s horse breeding and horse racing industries. The balance of the takeout remaining after these deductions is commonly referred to as the “retainage.” 5 The various forms of pari-mutuel wagering can be divided into two categories: straight wagering pools and multiple wagering pools, which are also referred to as “exotic” wagering pools. Examples of straight wagers include: “win” (a wager on one specific horse to finish first); “place” (a wager on one specific horse to finish first or second); and “show” (a wager on one specific horse to finish first, second or third). Examples of exotic wagers include: “daily double” (a wager in which the bettor selects the horses that will win two consecutive races); “exacta” (a wager in which the bettor selects the horses that will finish first and second, in order); “trifecta” (a wager in which the bettor selects the horses that will finish first, second and third, in order); and “pick six” (a wager in which the bettor selects the horses that will finish first in six consecutive races). The amount of takeout earned by the Company depends on where the race is run and the form of wager (straight or exotic). Net revenues from pari-mutuel wagering on live races run at the Racetrack consist of the total amount wagered, less the amounts paid (i) to winning patrons, (ii) for purses, (iii) to the Breeders’ Fund and (iv) for pari-mutuel taxes to the State of Minnesota. Net revenues from pari-mutuel wagering on races being run at out-of-state racetracks and simulcast to the Racetrack have similar expenses, but also include a host fee payment to the host track. The host fee, which is calculated as a percentage of monies wagered (generally 2.50% to 4.50%), is negotiated with the host track and must comply with state laws governing the host track. Wagering on Live Races. The Racing Act establishes the maximum takeout that may be deducted from the handle. The takeout percentage on live races depends on the type of wager. The total maximum takeouts are 17% from straight wagering pools and 23% from exotic wagering pools. From this takeout, Minnesota law requires deductions for purses, pari-mutuel taxes and the Breeders’ Fund. While the Racing Act provides that a minimum of 8.4% of the live racing handle is to be paid as purses to the owners of the horses, the size of the purse is subject to further agreement with the horsepersons’ associations. The Breeders’ Fund receives 1% of the handle. The pari-mutuel tax applicable to wagering on all live races is 6% of takeout in excess of $12 million during the twelve month period beginning July 1 and ending the following June 30. The following table sets forth the percentage distribution of each dollar wagered on live races at the Racetrack, as established by the Racing Act, and the Racetrack’s retainage: Live Racing Straight Exotic Returned to Winning Patrons 83.00 % 77.00 % Purse (1) 8.40 8.40 Minnesota Breeders’ Fund 1.00 1.00 Minnesota Pari-Mutuel Taxes (2) .17 .23 Racetrack Retainage (1) 7.43 13.37 Total Takeout 17.00 23.00 Total Handle 100.00 % 100.00 % (1) Minnesota law provides that the 8.40% purse payment is a minimum. The actual percentage, if any, above the minimum is determined between the Racetrack and the MHBPA. Any additional amounts paid for purses decrease the Racetrack’s retainage. (2) The current pari-mutuel tax structure exempts the first $12 million of takeout during a statutorily mandated twelve-month period. The total pari-mutuel tax liability for a twelve-month period will depend upon the total takeout during that period. 6 Wagering on Simulcast Races. The amount of takeout from simulcast wagering is determined by the laws of the state in which the host track is located. In addition, the Racing Act establishes a minimum that must be set aside from simulcasting for purse payments on racing within Minnesota. Different amounts are deducted for purses from the takeout depending on whether simulcasting occurs during the “Racing Season,” a statutorily defined 25 week period beginning in early May each year, or outside of the Racing Season. If simulcasting occurs during the Racing Season, the amount set aside for purses further depends on whether the simulcasting is part of a full racing card that occurs during the part of the day that live races are conducted at the Racetrack. For races that are part of a full simulcast racing card that takes place within the time of live races at the Racetrack, the amount reserved for purse payout is 8.4%. For simulcasting conducted during the Racing Season that does not occur within the time period of live races, the purse is equal to 50% of the takeout remaining after deductions for pari-mutuel taxes, payments to the Breeders’ Fund and payments to the host racetrack for host track fees. For simulcasting conducted outside of the Racing Season, the amount that must be contributed to the purses is 25% of the takeout after deducting pari-mutuel taxes, payments to the Minnesota Breeders’ Fund and host fee payments to the host racetrack. The following table sets forth the approximate percentage distribution of each dollar wagered for races simulcast at the Racetrack and the Racetrack’s retainage at December 31, 2005 and 2004: During Racing Season Concurrent with Live Card Not Concurrent with Live Card Outside of Racing Season Returned to Winning Patrons (1) 80.50 % 80.50 % 80.50 % Minnesota Breeders’ Fund 1.00 1.00 1.10 Minnesota Pari-Mutuel Taxes (2) .19 .19 .19 Purse (3) 8.40 7.39 1.70 Host Track Fees (4) 3.50 3.50 3.50 Racetrack Retainage (3) 6.41 7.32 13.01 Total Takeout 19.50 19.50 19.50 Total Handle 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % (1) This amount will depend upon the takeout at the host racetrack. This percentage will be determined by local and state law applicable to the host track, and ranges from 75.0% to 85.0%. (2) The current pari-mutuel tax structure exempts the first $12 million of takeout during a statutorily mandated twelve-month period. The total pari-mutuel tax liability for a twelve-month period will depend upon the total takeout during that period. (3) Although Minnesota law specifies purse percentages, the actual percentage is determined by agreement between the Racetrack and the MHBPA. Until December 31, 2004, Minnesota law allowed the Company to deduct an additional 8% expense factor when calculating the purse contribution for periods outside of the racing season. The MHBPA agreed to allow the Company to continue this deduction through December 31, 2005. (4) Payments to the host track generally range from 2.5% to 4.5% of total handle, subject to negotiation with each host track. For purposes of this table, the host track fee is assumed to be 3.5%. 7 Revenues from Horseracing Related Activities The Company generates cash revenues from the receipt of admission and reserved seating charges, preferred and valet parking, and the sales of various daily pari-mutuel publications. Food and Beverage Sales Revenues The Company earns revenue from food and beverage sales in its restaurant and numerous concession stands located throughout the facility. Food and beverage sales occur during live and simulcast racing, in the Card Club and during special events. Other Revenues Additional revenues are derived from the operation of an RV Park during the summer months, and the use of the facility year round for special events such as concerts, trade and craft shows, snowmobile racing, business meetings, private parties, horse expositions and sales, boat and automobile storage, community events. The Company also generates revenue from providing advertising signage space similar to that appearing at many sports stadiums and leases excess parking lot space for various automotive activities and vehicle storage. (v) Competition From 1994 through 2004, the Company was the only Racetrack licensed to operate in the State of Minnesota. On January 20, 2005, the MRC granted a license to the North Metro Harness Initiative, LLC (“NMHI”) to construct and operate a harness racetrack in Columbus Township, Anoka County, MN. Construction has not begun on that facility as of March 2006. Columbus Township is approximately 50 miles from Canterbury Park. This license authorizes NMHI to engage in pari-mutuel wagering on live and simulcast racing for standardbred (harness) horses. Current Minnesota state law permits licensed racetracks to operate a card room with up to 50 tables subject to completion of a 50-day live race meet and regulatory approval of a card room plan of operation. NMHI has publicly stated its intentions to seek legislation to allow them to apply for a license to operate a card room prior to completion of the minimum 50 live race days, and to permit pari-mutuel simulcast racing of all breeds at its racetrack. The Company competes with other forms of gaming in the State of Minnesota, principally casino-style gambling including slots and blackjack, and more recently unbanked card games available at casinos located on Native American-owned lands throughout the State of Minnesota, including a large casino located approximately four miles from the Racetrack. In addition, the Company competes against charitable gambling (bingo and pull tabs) and various state lottery products. The Company also faces increasing competition from offshore and out-of-state simulcast operations offering internet and telephone account home wagering systems to Minnesota residents, although Minnesota regulatory authorities believe such wagering is illegal. The Company also competes with other forms of entertainment in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area, including a wide range of live and televised professional and collegiate sporting events. In addition, live horse racing competes with a wide variety of summer attractions, including amusements parks, sporting events and other local activities. In addition, the Company competes with racetracks located throughout the United States in securing better quality horses to run at the Racetrack. Attracting the owners and trainers of better quality horses is largely dependent on the ability to offer large purses. The Company experiences significant competition for better quality horses from a racetrack located near Des Moines, Iowa, as well as racetracks in Chicago, Illinois, both of which offer substantially larger purses than the Company. This competition is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. 8 (vi) Regulation General. The ownership and operation of the Racetrack in Minnesota is subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The Racing Act provides for the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses, the State of Minnesota and the Breeders’ Fund and empowers the MRC to license and regulate substantially all aspects of horse racing in the State. The MRC, among other things, grants operating licenses to racetracks after an application process and public hearings, licenses all employees of a racetrack, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians and other participants, regulates the transfer of ownership interests in licenses, allocates live race days and simulcast-only race days, approves race programs, regulates the conduct of races, sets specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters and public areas of racetracks, regulates the types of wagers on horse races, and approves significant contractual arrangements with racetracks, including management agreements, simulcast arrangements, totalizator contracts and concessionaire agreements. A federal statute, the Interstate Horse Racing Act of 1978, also provides that a racetrack must obtain the consent of the group representing the horsepersons (owners and trainers) racing the breed of horses that race a majority of the time at the racetrack, and the consent of the state agency regulating the racetrack, in order to transmit simulcast signals of its live races or to receive and use simulcast signals from other racetracks. The Company has obtained the consent of the MHBPA and MRC for receiving and sending simulcasting signals. Issuance of Class A, and Class B Licenses to the Company. The Company holds a Class A License, issued by the MRC, which allows the Company to own and operate the Racetrack. The Class A License is effective until revoked or suspended by the MRC, or relinquished by the licensee. Currently the fee for a Class A License is $253,000 per fiscal year. The Company also holds a Class B License, issued by the MRC that allows the Company to sponsor and manage horse racing on which pari-mutuel wagering is conducted at its Class A licensed racetrack and on other horse races run at out-of-state locations as authorized by the MRC. The Class B License is renewable each year by the MRC after a public hearing (if required by the MRC). Currently the fee for the Class B License is $500 for each assigned race day on which live racing is actually conducted and $100 for each day on which simulcasting is authorized and actually takes place Limitation on the Number of Class A, and Class B Licenses. Pursuant to the Racing Act, so long as the Racetrack maintains its Class A License, no other Class A License may be issued to operate a racetrack in the seven county metropolitan area (the counties of Hennepin, Ramsey, Washington, Scott, Dakota, Anoka and Carver), except the MRC may issue an additional Class A License within the seven county metropolitan area, provided that the additional license may only be issued for a facility which, among other conditions, is located more than 20 miles from the Racetrack, contains a track no larger than five-eighths of a mile in circumference, and is used exclusively for standard bred (harness) racing. An additional Class A license was issued to NMHI on January 20, 2005 (see “Competition” above). However, as long as the Company holds its Class A License, only the Company may own and operate a racetrack in the seven county metropolitan area where thoroughbred horses and quarter horses may be raced. Limitation on Ownership and Management of an Entity, which holds a Class A License and/or Class B License. The Racing Act requires prior MRC approval of all officers, directors, 5% shareholders, or other persons having a present or future direct or indirect financial or management interest in any person applying for a Class A and Class B license, and if a change of ownership of more than 5% of the licensee’s shares is made after an application is filed or the license issued, the applicant or licensee must notify the MRC of the changes within five days of this occurrence and provide the information required by the Racing Act. 9 Card Club Regulation. The MRC is authorized by law to regulate Card Club operations and the law requires that the Company reimburse the MRC for its actual costs, including personnel costs, of regulating the Card Club. For fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, and 2004, the Company paid $110,000 and $102,000, respectively, to the MRC as reimbursement for costs of regulating card club operations. The MRC issued an additional Class B License to the Company on January 19, 2000 that authorizes the Company to host unbanked card games. The Class B License is renewable each year by the MRC after a public hearing (if required by the MRC). Currently, the Class B License Fee of $10,000 per calendar year is included in the Class A License Fee of $253,000 per calendar year. Local Regulation. The Company’s operations are subject to state and local laws, regulations, ordinances and other provisions affecting zoning and other matters which may have the effect of restricting the uses to which the Company’s land and other assets may be used. Also, any development of the Racetrack site is, among other things, subject to applicable zoning ordinances and requires approval by the City of Shakopee and other authorities and there can be no assurance such approvals would be obtained if any development was undertaken. (vii) Legislation On March 10, 2006, a bill was introduced in the Minnesota Legislature, that, if passed, would place a proposed amendment of the Minnesota Constitution on the November 2006 ballot to establish a framework for authorizing electronic gaming devices and banked card games at the Racetrack. This concept, often referred to as a “Racino”, as proposed for Canterbury Park would include approximately 3,000 gaming devices, 40 table games, a 250-room hotel, an Olympic scale horse park and additional restaurant venues. Based on the success of several Racinos in other states, the Company believes if the proposed constitutional amendment was approved and a Racino was authorized at the Racetrack, the Racino would enhance horse racing with increased purses, provide growth and development opportunities for the Company, and produce significant new tax revenues for state and local governments. Legislation has also been introduced to remove the 50-table limit currently imposed by Minnesota law and allow Canterbury Park to offer “banked” games in the Card Club. Similar bills were pursued in the 2005 Minnesota Legislature, however no action was taken prior to adjournment on July 13, 2005. The effort to obtain legislative authority for initiatives favorable to the Company has required, and will continue to require, substantial expenditures. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the outcome of legislative activities, there can be no assurance that any bills favorable to the Company’s interests will be enacted into law, and it is possible bills adverse to the Company could be enacted. (viii) Marketing The Company’s primary market is the seven-county Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan area. Current demographic information indicates that approximately 2.3 million adults age 20 and older, reside within a 50-mile radius of Shakopee, Minnesota and another .8 million adults age 20 and older, reside between a 50-100 mile radius of the Racetrack. The City of Shakopee, located in the southwestern portion of the metropolitan area, is one of the fastest growing communities in the region and Scott County is one of the fastest growing mid-sized counties in the country. Between 2004 and 2009, the population base within 100 miles of the Racetrack is expected to increase by an estimated 5.0%. To support its pari-mutuel horse racing and Card Club businesses, the Company conducts year-round marketing efforts to maintain the loyalty of live and simulcast patrons and attract new racing and Card Club customers. The Company’s marketing uses newspapers, television, the Internet, other print media, radio and 10 direct mail. Often the Company combines its marketing efforts to communicate the excitement of both wagering on horse racing and card playing. In addition to its regular advertising program, the Company conducts numerous special promotions and handicapping contests to increase simulcast patronage, and maintains successful pari-mutuel player and Casino Games player rewards programs. The 2005 combined Card Club and live racing advertising campaigns utilized print, radio and television advertising to highlight the attractive, park-like atmosphere of Canterbury Park, promoting activities for the entire family, as well as the fun and excitement of live horse racing and card playing. In addition, the development over the past seven years of a customer database has enabled the Company to increasingly utilize direct mail advertising. Because wagering on horse racing and playing poker card games and table card games are more complex than many other forms of gaming, such as slot machines or various lottery products, the Company continues to develop and conduct various educational programs, such as complimentary poker and table game lessons, tours of the Racetrack, wagering classes and contests that it believes will make the sport of horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering and card playing more understandable to the general public. (ix) Employees At March 15, 2006, the Company had 410 full-time employees and 301 part-time employees. On a seasonal basis the Company adds approximately 120 full-time and 250 part-time employees for live racing operations from early May until early September. The Company’s management believes its employee relations are good. (x) Executive Officers The executive officers of the Company, their ages and their positions with the Company are as follows: Name Age Position with Company Randall D. Sampson 47 President, CEO and General Manager David C. Hansen 49 Vice President of Finance, CFO & Secretary Mark A. Erickson 49 Vice President of Facilities Jerrold J. Fuller 61 Vice President of Card Club Operations Michael J. Garin 50 Vice President of Hospitality & Assistant Secretary Eric A. Halstrom 37 Vice President of Racing & Simulcasting John R. Harty 61 Vice President of Marketing Randall D. Sampson has been President and Chief Executive Officer since the formation of the Company in March 1994 and General Manager since September 1995. He has been active in horse industry associations, currently serving on the Board of Directors of the Thoroughbred Racetracks of America and is past President of the Minnesota Thoroughbred Association. Mr. Sampson also currently serves as a director of Communications Systems, Inc. (AMEX:JCS), a manufacturer of telecommunications and data communications products based in Hector, Minnesota. Mr. Sampson is the son of Curtis A. Sampson, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and the beneficial owner of approximately 23% of the Company’s common stock. 11 David C. Hansen joined the Company in July 2001 as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer. From 2000 to 2001 Mr. Hansen served as Director of Accounting for Prairie Meadows Racetrack and Casino in Altoona, IA, one of the nations first Racino operations. He served as Controller, and later Director of Finance at Treasure Island Resort & Casino, in Red Wing, MN, from 1993 until 2000. Mr. Hansen earned his CPA certification in 1983. Mr. Hansen is a member of the Minnesota Society of Certified Public Accountants and the Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals Association. Mark A. Erickson has been Vice President of Facilities since May 1997, serving as the Racetrack’s Director of Facilities since April 1994. From 1992 to 1994 Mr. Erickson served as Maintenance Supervisor for the Mall of America, supervising the interior maintenance for one of the largest shopping malls in North America. Mr. Erickson was Master Electrician for Canterbury Downs from 1986 to 1992, supervising the installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment. Jerrold J. Fuller has been Vice President of Card Club Operations since June of 2005. He has worked in various capacities for the Company including most recently as the Executive Director of Card Club Operations. He joined the Company in February 2000 as a Poker Shift Manager and played a significant role in the opening of the Card Club in April of that year. Mr. Fuller has been employed in the gaming industry since 1968 in California, Montana, and Louisiana, and is currently a member of the Poker Tournament Directors Association of America. Michael J. Garin has been Vice President of Hospitality since May of 1997. He had served as President of Canterbury Park Concessions, Inc. since September of 1995. From 1993 to 1994 Mr. Garin served as Food & Beverage Supervisor for Little Six, Inc., one of the largest tribal casino operations in the country. Mr. Garin was President of MMR Vending, Inc., a regional vending company, from 1988 to 1992. Prior to 1988 he was a Regional Director at General Mills Restaurant Group overseeing seven restaurants in three states. Eric A. Halstrom has been vice President of Racing and Simulcasting since June of 2005. Employed at Canterbury Park since 1997, Mr. Halstrom has worked in various capacities for the Company including most recently as the Executive Director of Teleracing Operations. Prior to his employment with Canterbury Park, Mr. Halstrom worked for Churchill Downs Management Company from 1994 – 1997 and was their Director of Off-Track Betting Operations in Indiana. Mr. Halstrom serves on the Board of Directors of the North Star Problem Gambling Alliance and the Minnesota affiliate of the National Council on Problem Gambling. John R. Harty joined the Company in February 2000 as Vice President of Marketing. From 1996 to 1999 Mr. Harty served as President of Minneapolis based Sun Products a manufacturer of sporting goods and pet products. He served that company as Vice President of Sales and Marketing from 1992 to 1996. From 1977 to 1991 Mr. Harty worked for Genesco, a billion dollar footwear company. He served as Executive Vice President in charge of Sales and Marketing for its Hosiery Divisions located in New York City. Mr. Harty currently serves on the Board of the Shakopee Area Chamber of Commerce. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to risk factors that may affect our operating results. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed below as well as the additional risks discussed under Forward Looking Statements on page 30 of this Form 10-K for additional risks to which the Company is exposed. We face significant competition from other gaming operations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense competition in our market, particularly competition from casinos located on Native American-owned lands. Such facilities have the advantage of being exempt from certain state and federal taxes. We also compete with internet wagering on horse races, other forms of gambling, other forms of entertainment and other racetracks throughout the country as previously discussed under Competition above. In addition, we may experience competition from another racetrack. In early 2005, the MRC granted a license to the North Metro Harness Initiative, LLC (“NMHI”) to construct and operate a harness racetrack in 12 Columbus Township, Anoka County, MN, which is approximately 50 miles from Canterbury Park. This license authorizes NMHI to engage in pari-mutuel wagering on live and simulcast racing for standardbred (harness) horses. Minnesota law permits licensed racetracks to operate a card room with up to 50 tables after completing a 50-day live race meet and regulatory approval of a card room plan of operation. We expect competition for our existing and future operations to increase both from NMHI , and as existing casinos on Native American-owned lands expand their operations. In addition, several of our competitors have substantially better name recognition, marketing and financial resources than we do. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us. The ownership and operation of our Racetrack and Card Club are subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The MRC has the authority to impose increases in the Class A and Class B license fees. In addition, State law requires that we reimburse the MRC for its actual costs of regulating the Card Club, including personnel costs. Increases in these licensing and regulatory costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Decisions by the MRC in regard to any one of more of the following matters could also adversely affect the Company’s operations: the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses, the State of Minnesota and the Breeders’ Fund; the granting of operating licenses to racetracks after an application process and public hearings; the licensing of all employees of a racetrack, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians and other participants; regulating the transfer of ownership interests in licenses, allocating live race days and simulcast-only race days, approving race programs, regulating the conduct of races, setting specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters and public areas of racetracks; changes to the types of wagers on horse races; and approval of significant contractual agreements. We are subject to changes in the laws that govern our business, including the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes, which would increase our costs. Our operations and oversight by the MRC are ultimately subject to the laws of Minnesota and there exists the risk that these laws may be amended in ways adverse to our operations. In particular, we are required to pay substantial taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, state and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting our industry. In addition, poor economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, increases in the cost of electricity or natural gas negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could negatively impact our operations by reducing disposable income of potential customers and decreasing visitation to our facility. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to changes in national and local economic conditions, including changes in the economy related to threatened or actual terrorist attacks and related to the war with Iraq. A recession or downturn in the general or regional economy could result in fewer customers visiting our facility, adversely affecting our results of operations. 13 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 