Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to risk factors that may affect our operating results. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed below as well as the additional risks discussed under Forward Looking Statements on page 28 of this Form 10-K for additional risks to which the Company is exposed. 11 We face significant competition from other gaming operations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense competition in our market, particularly competition from tribal casinos. Such facilities have the advantage of being exempt from certain state and federal taxes. We also compete with Internet wagering on horse races, other forms of gambling, other forms of entertainment and other racetracks throughout the country as previously discussed under Competition above. In addition, another racetrack will begin competing with the Company. In early 2005, the MRC granted a license to NMHI to construct and operate a harness racetrack in Columbus Township, Anoka County, MN, which is approximately 50 miles from the Racetrack. This license authorizes NMHI to engage in pari-mutuel wagering on live and simulcast racing for standardbred (harness) horses. In addition, Minnesota law permits licensed racetracks to operate a card room with up to 50 tables after completing a 50-day live race meet and regulatory approval of a card room plan of operation. NMHI has publicly stated its intentions to obtain a license to operate a card room at the completion of the minimum 50 live race days. Currently, NMHI has also proposed a bill to allow pari-mutuel simulcast racing of all breeds at its racetrack. As of the date of this report, this bill had passed the floor of the Senate in the Minnesota Legislature but had yet to be voted on by the House of Representatives. We expect competition for our existing and future operations to increase both from NMHI and as existing tribal casinos expand their operations. In addition, several of our tribal gaming competitors have substantially larger marketing and financial resources than we do. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us. The ownership and operation of our Racetrack and Card Club are subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The MRC has the authority to impose increases in the Class A and Class B license fees. In addition, State law requires that we reimburse the MRC for its actual costs of regulating the Card Club, including personnel costs. Increases in these licensing and regulatory costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Decisions by the MRC in regard to any one or more of the following matters could also adversely affect the Company’s operations: the granting of operating licenses to Canterbury Park and other racetracks after an application process and public hearings; the licensing of all employees of a racetrack, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians and other participants; regulating the transfer of ownership interests in licenses, allocating live race days and simulcast-only race days, approving race programs, regulating the conduct of races, setting specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters and public areas of racetracks; changes to the types of wagers on horse races; and approval of significant contractual agreements. We are subject to changes in the laws that govern our business, including the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes, which would increase our costs, and changes in other laws may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our operations and oversight by the MRC are ultimately subject to the laws of Minnesota and there exists the risk that these laws may be amended in ways adverse to our operations. In particular, we are required to pay taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, state and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of laws affecting our industry, such as the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses and the Breeders’ Fund. In addition, poor economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are also subject to laws in Minnesota that affect businesses generally. It is possible, as a result of the legislative process, that legislation directly or indirectly adverse to the Company may be enacted into law. As 12 previously discussed under Legislation above, in May 2007, a bill passed in the Minnesota Legislature severely restricting smoking in all public places in Minnesota, including at the Racetrack, effective October 1, 2007. Tribal casinos located in Minnesota are not covered by this legislation and will continue to offer various gaming alternatives, including card games, in an environment that allows smoking. Since October 1, 2007, this legislation has had, and may continue to have, a significant adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and profits. The Company believes that simulcast customers who smoke and have left our facilities are wagering on the Internet. The Company also believes card club customers who smoke are now patronizing tribal casinos where smoking is permitted. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Increases in the cost of electricity or natural gas negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could negatively impact our operations by reducing disposable income of potential customers and decreasing visitation to our facility. A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to changes in national and local economic conditions, including changes in the economy related to threatened or actual terrorist attacks and related to the war with Iraq. A recession or downturn in the general or regional economy could result in fewer customers visiting our facility, adversely affecting our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 