ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing economic, political and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in Item 7, highlight some of these risks. The terms “Sparton,” “the Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Sparton Corporation and subsidiaries. The industry is extremely competitive and we depend on continued outsourcing by OEMs. The EMS and Medical industries in general are highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our contract manufacturing services are available from many sources, and we compete with numerous domestic and foreign firms. Within Sparton’s target market, the high-mix, low- to medium-volume sector of the EMS and Medical industries, there are substantially fewer competitors, but competition remains strong. Some competitors have 8 Table of Contents substantially greater manufacturing, R&D, marketing or financial resources and, in some cases, have more geographically diversified international operations. Sparton expects competition to intensify further as more companies enter our target markets and our customers consolidate. In the future, increased competition from large electronic component manufacturers that are selling, or may begin to sell, electronics manufacturing services may occur. Future growth will depend on new outsourcing opportunities, and could be limited by OEMs performing such functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource. In some cases, Sparton may not be able to offer prices as low as some competitors for a host of reasons. For example, those competitors may have lower cost structures for their services, they may be willing to accept business at lower margins in order to utilize more of their excess capacity, or they may be willing to take on business at low or even zero gross margins to gain entry into the EMS or Medical markets. Upon the occurrence of any of these events, our net sales would likely decline. Periodically, we may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to some competitors with greater direct buying power. As a result, competitors may have a competitive advantage and obtain business from our customers. Principal competitive factors in our targeted markets are believed to be quality, reliability, the ability to meet delivery schedules, customer service, technological sophistication, geographic location and price. During periods of recession in the EMS and Medical industries, our competitive advantages in the areas of adaptive manufacturing and responsive customer service may be of reduced importance due to increased price sensitivity. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, profit margin compression, or loss of market share. Our operating results are subject to general economic conditions and may vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors. We are subject to inflation, interest rate changes, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, the effects of governmental plans to manage economic conditions and other national and global economic occurrences beyond our control. Such factors, economic weakness, and constrained customer spending have resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates. We can experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations. In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that contribute to these fluctuations are our effectiveness in managing the manufacturing processes and costs in order to decrease manufacturing expenses, as well as the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs. The timing of our sonobuoy sales to the U.S. Navy is dependent upon access to the test range and successful passage of product tests performed by the U.S. Navy. Additionally, we rely on our customers’ demands, which can and do change dramatically, sometimes with little notice. Such factors also could affect our results of operations in the future. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results and may not be recoverable. Start-up costs, the management of labor and equipment resources in connection with new programs and new customer relationships and the need to estimate the extent and timing of required resources can adversely affect our profit margins and operating results. These factors are particularly evident with the introduction of new products and programs. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when new facilities are opened or programs are transferred from one facility to another. If new programs or customer relationships are terminated or delayed, our operating results may be harmed, particularly in the near term. We may not be able to recoup our start-up costs or quickly replace these anticipated new program revenues. 9 Table of Contents We depend on limited or sole source suppliers for some critical components; the inability to obtain components as required, with favorable purchase terms, could harm our business. A significant portion of our costs are related to electronic components purchased to produce our products. In some cases, there may be only one supplier of a particular component. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production, and thus delay shipments to customers and the associated revenue of all products using that component. This could cause the Company to experience a reduction in sales, increased inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. In the past, we have secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue was not materially impacted. If we are unable to procure necessary components under favorable purchase terms, including at favorable prices and with the order lead times needed for the efficient and profitable operation of our factories, our results of operations could suffer. We are dependent on a few large customers; the loss of such customers or reduction in their demand could substantially harm our business and operating results. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, our six largest customers, including the U.S. Government, accounted for approximately 77% of total net sales. The U.S. Navy, a DSS customer, represented 28% of our total net sales in the same period. Siemens, a Medical customer, and Goodrich, an EMS customer, contributed 21% and 13%, respectively, of total net sales in fiscal 2010. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers, but we cannot ensure that present or future large customers will not terminate, significantly change, reduce, or delay their manufacturing arrangements with us. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers or reduced sales to these customers could negatively impact our business. We rely on the continued growth and financial stability of our customers, including our major customers. Adverse changes in the end markets they serve can reduce demand from our customers in those markets and/or make customers in these end markets more price sensitive. Furthermore, mergers or restructurings among our customers or our customers’ customers could increase concentration or reduce total demand as the combined entities rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. Future developments, particularly in those end markets which account for more significant portions of our revenues, could harm our business and our results of operations. Sparton also generates large accounts receivable in connection with electronic contract manufacturing. If one or more of our customers experiences financial difficulty and is unable to pay for the services provided, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our customers seek bankruptcy protection, they could act to terminate all or a portion of their business with us, originate new business with our competitors and terminate or assign our long-term supply agreements. Any loss of revenue from our major customers, including the non-payment or late payment of our invoices, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Congressional budgetary constraints or reallocations can reduce our government sales. Our U.S. Government contracts have many inherent risks that could adversely impact our financial results. Future governmental sales could be affected by a change in defense spending by the U.S. Government, or by changes in spending allocation that could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated, which could adversely affect our financial results. The Company’s U.S. governmental sales are funded by the federal budget. Changes in negotiations for program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract. The timing of sonobuoy sales to the U.S. Navy is dependent upon access to their test facilities and successful passage of their product tests. Reduced governmental budgets have made access to the test range less predictable and less frequent than in the past, which has impacted the consistency or predictability of our reported revenues. 10 Table of Contents Customer cancellations, reductions, or delays could adversely affect our operating results. We generally do not obtain long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel orders, delay the delivery of orders or release orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreases in demand for their products and services. Such changes by a significant customer, by a group of customers, or by a single customer whose production is material to an individual facility could seriously harm results of operations in that period. In addition, since much of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would adversely affect our margins and operating income. Although we are always seeking new opportunities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to replace deferred, reduced or cancelled orders. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with much certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Additionally, we are often required to place materials orders from vendors, some of which are non-cancelable, based on an expected level of customer volume. At June 30, 2010, non-cancelable purchase orders with vendors totaled approximately $16.6 million. If actual demand is higher than anticipated, we may be required to increase staffing and other expenses in order to meet such demand of our customers. Alternatively, anticipated orders from our customers may be delayed or fail to materialize, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Such customer order fluctuations and deferrals have had a material adverse effect on us in the past, and we may experience similar effects in the future. Such order changes could cause a delay in the repayment to us for inventory expenditures we incurred in preparation for the customer’s orders or, in certain circumstances, require us to return the inventory to our suppliers, resell the inventory to another customer or continue to hold the inventory. In some cases, excess material resulting from longer order lead time is a risk due to the potential of order cancellation or design changes by customers. Additionally, dramatic changes in circumstances for a customer could also negatively impact the carrying value of our inventory for that customer. The Company and its customers may be unable to keep current with technological changes. Our customers participate in markets that have rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and relatively short product life cycles. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products, on a timely and cost-effective basis, that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There is no assurance that our customers will do so, and any failure to do so could substantially harm our customers and us. Additionally, our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our own technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services which meet changing customer needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. If we are unable to do so, business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our growth strategies could be ineffective due to the risks of further acquisitions. Our growth strategy has included acquiring complementary businesses. We could fail to identify, finance or complete suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms and prices. Acquisition efforts could increase a number of risks, including diversion of management’s attention, difficulties in integrating systems and operations, potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies and exposure to unanticipated liabilities. Our discovery of, or failure to discover, material issues during due diligence investigations of acquisition targets, either before closing with regard to potential risks of the acquired operations, or after closing with regard to the timely discovery of breaches of representations or warranties, could materially harm our business. 11 Table of Contents Our current use of advance billings within Government contracts may not continue. Our current contracts with the U.S. Navy include provisions for certain billing and collection of funds from the Government in advance of related inventory purchases and incurrence of manufacturing expenses. These contractual provisions are an integral part of our capital and liquidity profile. While we have other sources of liquidity including, but not limited to, our operations, existing cash balances and our revolving line-of-credit, and we believe we have sufficient liquidity for our anticipated needs over the next 12 months, no assurances regarding liquidity can be made. The discontinuance of advance billing provisions from future U.S. Navy contracts would require us to fund the working capital requirements related to these contracts from other sources and otherwise could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could increase operating costs. A portion of the Company’s operations and some customers are in foreign locations. As a result, transactions may occur in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Currency exchange rates fluctuate on a daily basis as a result of a number of factors and cannot be easily predicted. Volatility in the U.S. dollar could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The primary impact of currency exchange fluctuations is on the adjustments related to the translation of the Company’s Canadian and Vietnamese financial statements into U.S. dollars, which are included in current earnings, as well as impacting the cash, receivables, payables, property and equipment of our operating entities. The closure of the Company’s Canadian facility was announced March 30, 2009, which closure is now complete. The Company currently does not use financial instruments to hedge foreign currency fluctuation and unexpected expenses could occur from future fluctuations in exchange rates. Failure to attract and retain key personnel and skilled associates could hurt operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of key management personnel. While we have employment contracts in place with several of our executive officers, we nevertheless cannot be assured that we will retain our key employees, and the loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. Our future success will require an ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for such key personnel is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Changes in the cost of providing pension and other employee benefits, including changes in health care costs, investment returns on plan assets, and discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities, could lead to increased costs in any of our operations. We are involved in legal proceedings and unfavorable decisions could materially affect us. Our business activities expose us to risks of litigation with respect to our customers, suppliers, creditors, shareholders, product liability, or environmental-related matters. We may incur significant expense to defend or otherwise address current or future claims. Any litigation, even a claim without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Adverse regulatory developments could harm our business. Our business operates in heavily regulated environments. We must manage the risk of changes in or adverse actions under applicable law or in our regulatory authorizations, licenses and permits, governmental security clearances or other legal rights in order to operate our business, manage our work force, or import and export goods and services as needed. We also face the risk of other adverse regulatory actions, compliance costs, or governmental sanctions. 12 Table of Contents Business disruptions could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Increased international political instability, evidenced by threats and occurrence of terrorist attacks, conflicts in the Middle East and Asia, and strained international relations arising from these conflicts, may hinder our ability to do business. The political environment in communist countries can contribute to the threat of instability. While we have not been adversely affected as yet due to this exposure, one of our facilities is based in Vietnam, which is a communist country. These events may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economies, particularly customer confidence and spending, which in turn could affect our revenue and results of operations. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could increase the volatility of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us, our customers and our suppliers. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, including earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, fires, and other natural or manmade disasters, which could seriously harm our financial condition and increase our expenses. In the past, hurricanes have adversely impacted the performance of two of our production facilities located in Florida. We have a production facility outside Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, which is in an area previously affected by avian flu. To the best of our knowledge, concerns about the spread of various types of flu have not affected our employees or operations. However, our production could be severely impacted by an epidemic spread of these or other forms of flu. These factors could also affect our suppliers and customers, and results of operations. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and more recently the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) required or will require changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Similar rules are expected to be promulgated in relation to the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with these new rules has increased and may increase further our legal, financial and accounting costs. We expect some level of increased costs related to these new regulations to continue indefinitely. While preparation and consulting costs are anticipated to decline, continuous review and audit costs related to these regulations may increase. However, absent significant changes in related rules (which we cannot assure), we anticipate these costs may decline somewhat in future years as we become more efficient in our compliance processes. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified management personnel. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. The report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Dodd-Frank Act was recently passed into law, which permanently exempts SEC non-accelerated filers, which we currently qualify as, from this auditor attestation requirement. In the future, there can be no assurance that we will not exceed the maximum market capitalization threshold to qualify as a non-accelerated filers under SEC rules and remain exempt from obtaining auditor attestations on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 13 Table of Contents We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a failure to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC which, in turn, could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, which expose us to potential liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a significant consideration for us because we use various hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. We may be liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleaning up properties we own or operate if they are or become contaminated by the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused the release, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. In the event of contamination or violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages including fines, penalties and the costs of remedial actions and could also be subject to revocation of our discharge permits. Any such penalties or revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby harming our business. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by legal and regulatory risks, and government reviews, inquiries or investigations could harm the Company’s business. The Company’s operations in Vietnam and the business it conducts outside the United States are subject to risks relating to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in the United States as well as in local jurisdictions. Additionally, there is a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls. From time to time, the Company may conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews to ensure that the Company is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the Company could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. Any determination that the Company’s operations or activities are not in compliance with United States laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or various international laws and regulations could expose the Company to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm the business and reputation of the Company. Certain shareholders have significant control and shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect the share price. As of June 30, 2010, the directors, executive officers and 5% shareholders beneficially owned or controlled an aggregate of approximately 38% of our common stock. Accordingly, certain persons have significant influence over the election of our Board of Directors, the approval or disapproval of any other matters requiring shareholder approval, and the affairs and policies of Sparton. Such voting power could also have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company that might otherwise be beneficial to other shareholders. Conversely, such voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company that might otherwise be detrimental to other shareholders. In addition, substantially all of the outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by shareholders, or even the potential for such sales, may cause the market price to decline and could impair the ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. 14 Table of Contents In the future, we may need additional funding, which could be raised through issuances of equity securities. We also have the right to issue shares upon such terms and conditions and at such prices as our Board of Directors may establish. Such offerings would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and could cause a dilution of the net tangible book value of such shares. At June 30, 2010, there were options outstanding for the purchase of 269,796 shares of common stock of the Company, of which options for 264,546 shares were vested and exercisable. Holders of our common stock could suffer dilution if outstanding common stock options are exercised in excess of the number of shares repurchased by Sparton. Market volatility may have an adverse impact on our pension costs associated with our defined benefit plan. The recent volatility and uncertainty in the global financial market has resulted in the Company making significant cash contributions to our pension plan in recent years. For a further discussion of the Sparton Corporation Pension Plan, see “Pension Obligations” in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section in Part II, Item 7 of this report and Note 8, Employee Retirement Benefits Plans, of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Notwithstanding the actions recently taken to reduce the costs of the plan, if the global financial market continues to be unstable or declines further, we may be required to make further contributions to the pension plan in future periods. These contributions, if made, would negatively impact our liquidity, cash flows, and financial position. The tightened credit market, both nationally and globally, may adversely affect the availability of funds to us for working capital, liquidity requirements, and other purposes, which may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. We anticipate that our revolving line-of-credit facility will be a component of our available working capital during fiscal 2011. For a summary of our banking arrangements, see Note 6, Debt, of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If the turmoil in the credit market continues or intensifies, we may have difficulty maintaining a line-of-credit on similar or more favorable terms, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, and results of operations. There are no assurances we will always have access to a line-of-credit or that the line-of-credit would always be sufficient for all purposes. Additionally, if vendors of electronic components restricted or reduced credit extended to us for purchase of raw materials as a result of general market conditions, the vendor’s credit status, or our financial position, it could adversely affect liquidity, cash flows, and results of operations. Our stock price may be volatile, and the stock is thinly traded, which may cause investors to lose most or part of their investment in our common stock. The stock market may experience volatility that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. If market-sector or industry-based fluctuations occur, our stock price could decline regardless of our actual operating performance, and investors could lose a substantial part of their investments. Moreover, if an active public market for our common stock is not sustained in the future, it may be difficult to resell such stock. Generally, our stock is thinly traded. When trading volumes are low, a relatively small buy or sell order can result in a relatively large change in the trading price of our common stock and investors may not be able to sell their securities at a favorable price. In addition, should the vested and exercisable stock options be exercised and the resulting common shares simultaneously sold (to fund the cost of the exercise and the related taxes associated with the stock sale), our stock price could be significantly adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 