Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and to the Company could materially impact our future performance and results. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed below as well as the additional risks discussed under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 29 of this Form 10-K. We face significant competition, both directly from other gaming operations and indirectly from other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense competition in our market, particularly competition from NMHI which offers unbanked card games similar to those offered by the Company. We also compete with Native American owned casinos. Such facilities have the advantage of being exempt from certain state and federal taxes and state regulation of indoor smoking, as well as the ability to offer a wider variety of gaming products. Additionally, we compete with illegal Internet wagering on horse races, other forms of gambling, spectator sports, other forms of entertainment, and other racetracks throughout the country as previously discussed under “Competition” above. We expect competition for our existing and future operations to increase from NMHI, existing tribal casinos, and racetracks that are able to subsidize their purses with alternative gaming revenues. In addition, several of our tribal gaming competitors have substantially larger marketing and financial resources than we do. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results. 12 Table of Contents Our business is highly sensitive to general economic trends. Economic conditions improved during 2013 and 2014 from a previous period of adverse conditions in local, regional, national and global markets, however there remains risk that a downturn may resume. Additionally, our ability to respond to periods of economic contraction may be limited, as certain of our costs remain fixed or even increase, when revenues decline. Accordingly, any persistence of poor economic conditions, or further deterioration, could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly sensitive to consumer confidence and reductions in consumers’ discretionary spending, which may result from economic conditions, unemployment levels and other changes we cannot accurately predict. Demand for entertainment and leisure activities is sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, which have been adversely affected by recent economic conditions. Further declines in the residential real estate market, changes in consumer confidence, increases in individual tax rates, and other factors that we cannot accurately predict may reduce the disposable income of our customers. This could result in fewer patrons visiting our racetrack and wagering facilities, and may impact our customers’ ability to wager with the same frequency and maintain their wagering level profiles. Accordingly, any significant loss of customers or decline in wagering could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us. The ownership and operation of our Racetrack and Card Casino are subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The MRC has the authority to impose increases in the Class A and Class B license fees. In addition, State law requires that we reimburse the MRC for its actual costs of regulating the Card Casino, including personnel costs. Increases in these licensing and regulatory costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Decisions by the MRC in regard to any one or more of the following matters could also adversely affect the Company’s operations: the granting of operating licenses to Canterbury Park and other racetracks after an application process and public hearings; the licensing of all track employees, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians, and other participants; regulating the transfer of ownership interests in licenses; allocating live race days and simulcast-only race days; approving race programs; regulating the conduct of races; setting specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters, and public areas of racetracks; changes to the types of wagers on horse races; and approval of significant contractual agreements. We are subject to changes in the laws that govern our business, including the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes, which would increase our costs, and changes in other laws may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our operations and oversight by the MRC are ultimately subject to the laws of Minnesota and there exists the risk that these laws may be amended in ways adverse to our operations. In particular, we are required to pay taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, state and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of laws affecting our industry, such as the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses, and the MBF. In addition, poor economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to predict with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are also subject to federal and Minnesota laws that affect businesses generally. Some of these laws, such as laws pertaining to immigration, have severe penalties for law violations. In addition, it is possible, as a result of the legislative process, that legislation directly or indirectly adverse to the Company may be enacted into law. We depend on key personnel. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the skills and efforts of our senior executives and management team including Randall D. Sampson, our Chief Executive Officer. We have no employment agreements with our senior executives and key personnel, and we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us, and their retention is affected by the competitiveness of our terms of employment and our ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies. Our inability to retain key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We receive, store and process personal information and other customer data. There are numerous federal, state and local laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other data. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to customers or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other player data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers’ information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. The Company is also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, the Company could be liable to payment card issuers for the associated expense and penalties. In addition, if the Company fails to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, the Company could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, and other forms of energy. Increases in the cost of electricity or natural gas negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could negatively impact our operations by reducing disposable income of potential customers and decreasing visitation to our facility. Our CMA with the SMSC may be terminated by the SMSC prior to December 31, 2022 under certain circumstances. The CMA grants to the SMSC the right to terminate the CMA without cause if the SMSC determines, in its sole discretion that a change of circumstance adverse to its interests with respect to gaming in the State of Minnesota has occurred. If the SMSC exercises this right, the Company would be entitled to substantial wind down payments approximately equal to 2.5 times payments due under the CMA in the three years following the year it gives such notice of termination. While such wind down payments would cushion the impact of the SMSC’s exercise of this right to terminate the CMA, a termination of the CMA prior to the expiration of its term in 2022 could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Nationally the popularity of horse racing is declining. There has been a general decline in the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives as discussed above. According to industry sources, pari-mutuel handle declined 28.6% from 2006 to 2014 including a 2.8% decrease in 2014 compared to 2013. Declining interest in horse racing has had a negative impact on revenues and profitability in our racing business. Our business plan anticipates increased attendance and pari-mutuel wagering during our 2015 live meet and in future live meets because of purse enhancement payments and marketing payments we receive under the CMA. However, we recognize that a generalized decline in interest in horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in future years. We may not be able to attract a sufficient number of horses and trainers to achieve full field horse races. We believe that patrons prefer to wager on races with a large number of horses, commonly referred to as full fields. A failure to offer races with full fields results in less wagering on our horse races. Our ability to attract full fields depends on several factors. It depends on our ability to offer and fund competitive purses and it also depends on the overall horse population available for racing. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases. If our racetrack is faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, it would have a material impact on our profitability. Finally, if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our racetrack by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, a well-maintained racetrack, better conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our racetrack and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could also decrease. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to operate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenues for race purses and capital improvements. While our ability to offer full fields to patrons during our live meets has been substantially strengthened by the purse enhancement payments that will be made under the CMA through 2022, our inability to attract full fields, for whatever reason, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Inclement weather and other conditions may affect our ability to conduct live racing. Since horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, high winds, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause events to be canceled and/or attendance to be lower, resulting in reduced wagering. Our operations are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. If a business interruption were to occur due to inclement weather and continue for a significant length of time at our racetrack, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Horse racing is an inherently dangerous sport and our racetrack is subject to personal injury litigation. Although we carry jockey accident insurance at our racetrack to cover personal jockey injuries which may occur during races or daily workouts, there are certain exclusions to our insurance coverage, and we are still subject to litigation from injured participants. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Our results may be affected by the outcome of litigation, as this litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our business depends on utilizing totalizator services. Our customers utilize information provided by a third party vendor that accumulates wagers, records sales, calculates payoffs and displays wagering data in a secure manner to patrons who wager on our horse races. The failure to keep technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively or develop new forms of wagering and/or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. In addition, a totalizator system failure could cause a considerable loss of revenue if betting machines are unavailable for a significant period of time or during an event with high betting volume. An increase in the minimum wage mandated under Federal or Minnesota law could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. The Company employs a large number of individuals at an hourly wage equal to or slightly above the current federal mandated wage of $8.00 per hour. See “Recent Legislation” at (c)(vii) for additional information regarding current minimum legislation. Most of these employees are either high school or college students employed on a seasonal basis or tipped employees, many of whom receive, on average, tip income that is several times the current minimum wage. From time to time legislation is introduced in the U.S. Congress or the Minnesota legislature that would substantially increase the minimum wage. An immediate and substantial increase in the current minimum wage applicable to the Company would materially increase the Company’s operating expenses and could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial results. While we might be able to mitigate the impact of a substantial increase by raising our prices or reducing our employee count, these measures could themselves have an adverse effect because higher prices and diminished service levels may discourage visits to the Racetrack. Furthermore, to the extent we are not able to implement such cost cutting measures, the increase in the minimum wage could materially adversely affect our net income. Uncertainty regarding the success of a possible real estate development project While the Company has entered into a Letter of Intent with Kraus-Anderson, Inc. regarding the possible development of a mixed use destination lifestyle center on unused and underutilized land adjacent to the Racetrack and the parties are now negotiating the terms of a formal Development Agreement. Such negotiations may not result in the parties agreeing on terms for financing and construction of the proposed project. Also, even if the parties enter into a Development Agreement, there can be no assurance that the proposed mixed use complex or any other real estate project will be financed and constructed, or that, if constructed, it will operate successfully. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 