Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to risk factors that may affect our operating results. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed below as well as the additional risks discussed under Forward Looking Statements on page 27 of this Form 10-K for additional risks to which the Company is exposed. We face significant competition from other gaming operations that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face intense competition in our market, particularly competition from tribal casinos. Such facilities have the advantage of being exempt from certain state and federal taxes and state regulation of indoor smoking. We also compete with illegal Internet wagering on horse races, other forms of gambling, other forms of entertainment and other racetracks throughout the country as previously discussed under Competition above. In early 2005, the MRC granted a license to NMHI to construct and operate a harness racetrack in Columbus Township, Anoka County, MN, which is approximately 50 miles from the Racetrack. This license authorized NMHI to engage in pari-mutuel wagering on live and simulcast racing for standardbred (harness) horses. This racetrack opened in April of 2008 as Running Aces Harness Park (“Running Aces”). In addition, Running Aces began card room operations in June of 2008. We expect competition for our existing and future operations to increase both from Running Aces and existing tribal casinos. In addition, several of our tribal gaming competitors have substantially larger marketing and financial resources than we do. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results. A downturn in general economic conditions can adversely affect our results of operations. Consumer demand for entertainment is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions including housing prices and the availability of credit; high energy, fuel and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; the weakening job market; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. These factors could reduce consumer demand for the leisure activities we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. Our revenues and profitability have 11 Table of Contents been adversely affected by these factors during the last two years and are likely to be adversely affected in 2010. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us. The ownership and operation of our Racetrack and card room are subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The MRC has the authority to impose increases in the Class A and Class B license fees. In addition, State law requires that we reimburse the MRC for its actual costs of regulating the card room, including personnel costs. Increases in these licensing and regulatory costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Decisions by the MRC in regard to any one or more of the following matters could also adversely affect the Company’s operations: the granting of operating licenses to Canterbury Park and other racetracks after an application process and public hearings; the licensing of all employees of a racetrack, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians and other participants; regulating the transfer of ownership interests in licenses; allocating live race days and simulcast-only race days; approving race programs; regulating the conduct of races; setting specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters and public areas of racetracks; changes to the types of wagers on horse races; and approval of significant contractual agreements. We are subject to changes in the laws that govern our business, including the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes, which would increase our costs, and changes in other laws may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our operations and oversight by the MRC are ultimately subject to the laws of Minnesota and there exists the risk that these laws may be amended in ways adverse to our operations. In particular, we are required to pay taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, state and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of laws affecting our industry, such as the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses and the MBF. In addition, poor economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are also subject to laws in Minnesota that affect businesses generally. It is possible, as a result of the legislative process, that legislation directly or indirectly adverse to the Company may be enacted into law. We Depend on Key Personnel. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of Randall D. Sampson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executive officers and key personnel, on whom we are highly dependent. Our inability to retain key personnel could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. Increases in the cost of electricity or natural gas negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could negatively impact our operations by reducing disposable income of potential customers and decreasing visitation to our facility. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 12 Table of Contents 