RISK FACTORS” SECTION OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, AND IN OTHER REPORTS FILED BY US FROM TIME TO TIME WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION. WE ARE NOT OBLIGATED TO UPDATE ANY SUCH FACTORS OR TO REFLECT THE IMPACT OF ACTUAL FUTURE EVENTS OR DEVELOPMENTS ON SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THROUGHOUT THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, THE WORDS “COMPANY”, “WE”, “OUR”AND “US” REFER TO INNKEEPERS USA TRUST AND ITS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED OR THE CONTEXT OTHERWISE REQUIRES. PART I Item 1. Business (a) General Innkeepers USA Trust (“Innkeepers”) is a self-administered real estate investment trust (“REIT”). At December 31, 2005, Innkeepers owned 70 hotels with an aggregate of 8,825 rooms/suites through its partnership interests in Innkeepers USA Limited Partnership (with its subsidiary partnerships, the “Partnership” and collectively with Innkeepers, the “Company”). The Company focuses primarily on upscale extended-stay hotels and mid-priced limited service hotels. Forty-nine of our hotels are in the upscale extended-stay market and operate under brands such as Residence Inn by Marriott, Homewood Suites by Hilton or Summerfield Suites. Our upscale extended-stay hotels typically have the following characteristics: (i) their principal customer base is business travelers who are on assignment for executive training and consulting, project assignment and corporate relocations; (ii) their service and amenities include complimentary breakfast and evening hospitality hour, limited meeting space, daily linen and room cleaning service, 24-hour front desk, guest grocery services, and an on-site maintenance staff; and (iii) their physical facilities include large suites, quality construction, full separate kitchens in each guest suite, quality room furnishings, pool, and exercise facilities. Our mid-priced hotels operate under brands such as Hampton Inn and TownePlace Suites, which offer services and amenities such as complimentary breakfast, high-speed internet access, local calls, an in-room movie channel, and daily linen and room cleaning service. 1 Table of Contents The following charts set forth certain information with respect to our hotels at December 31, 2005: Franchise Affiliation Number ofHotels Number ofRooms/Suites Upscale Extended-Stay Residence Inn by Marriott 42 5,044 Summerfield Suites 5 650 Homewood Suites by Hilton 1 146 Sunrise Suites (1) 1 96 49 5,936 Upscale Doubletree Guest Suites 1 105 Four Points by Sheraton 1 216 Courtyard by Marriott (2) 3 529 Westin (3) 1 224 Clarion (Bulfinch—Boston, MA) 1 80 7 1,154 Mid-Priced Hampton Inn 13 1,640 TownePlace Suites 1 95 14 1,735 70 8,825 (1) This hotel is operated independently of any franchise. (2) Two of these hotels (with a total of 393 rooms) are closed for renovation and conversion to the Courtyard by Marriott brand. (3) This is a full-service upper-upscale hotel. State Number ofHotels Number ofSuites/Rooms Percentage ofSuites/Rooms California 10 1,513 17.1 % New Jersey 7 1,099 12.5 Florida 6 815 9.2 Texas 5 690 7.8 Illinois 4 560 6.3 Michigan 5 516 5.9 Washington 4 504 5.7 Maryland 3 392 4.4 Kentucky 3 358 4.1 Pennsylvania 3 325 3.7 New York 3 318 3.6 Virginia 3 305 3.5 Colorado 2 284 3.2 Georgia 2 280 3.2 Connecticut 2 192 2.2 Massachusetts 2 179 2.0 Indiana 2 168 1.9 Washington, D.C. 1 105 1.2 Ohio 1 80 0.9 Maine 1 78 0.9 Kansas 1 64 0.7 70 8,825 100.0 % 2 Table of Contents 2003-2004 Restructuring Transactions From January 1, 2003 through November 30, 2003, 60 of our hotels were leased to Innkeepers Hospitality, Inc. or its affiliates (collectively, the “IH Lessee”) under separate percentage leases (collectively, the “Percentage Leases”) providing for rent equal to (a) a fixed base amount or, (b) if greater, percentage rent based on the room revenues of the hotel. A hotel acquired in June 2003 was leased by the Company to a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) of the Company, and the TRS engaged an affiliate of the IH Lessee (the “IH Manager”) to manage the hotel. As of December 1, 2003, wholly-owned TRSs of the Company acquired from the IH Lessee the Percentage Leases for 23 of the hotels, and simultaneously entered into management agreements with the IH Manager to manage those 23 hotels. The IH Lessee continued to lease and manage 37 hotels under Percentage Leases for the remainder of 2003. Between December 31, 2003 and March 1, 2004, TRSs acquired the Percentage Leases on the remaining 37 hotels leased by the IH Lessee, and the TRSs entered into management agreements with the IH Manager to manage those Hotels as those Percentage Leases were acquired. We refer to this transaction as the “TRS Transaction”. Jeffrey H. Fisher, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees, owned the IH Lessee and owns the IH Manager. Six of the Company’s hotels were previously leased to affiliates of Wyndham International, Inc. (the “Summerfield Lessee”). The IH Lessee and the Summerfield Lessee are sometimes referred to as the “Lessees.” Between March 1, 2004 and April 1, 2004, the Company (i) terminated the Percentage Leases with the Summerfield Lessee, (ii) entered into new Percentage Leases with its wholly owned TRSs, (iii) caused the TRSs to enter into management agreements with the IH Manager and (iv) caused the TRSs to enter into franchise agreements with respect to the five Hotels operating under the Summerfield Suites brand (which is now owned by Hyatt Corporation). We refer to this transaction as the “Wyndham Lease Termination Transaction.” All but one of the Company’s hotels were managed by the IH Manager under management agreements with the TRSs at December 31, 2005. The TRSs are responsible for paying all hotel operating expenses, including all personnel costs, franchise royalties and related fees, the Conversion Fee payable in connection with the Marriott Takeback Transaction (see “—Management Conversion of Marriott-Managed Hotels” below), utility costs, and general repairs and maintenance. The TRSs are also responsible for all management fees payable to the IH Manager, including base and incentive fees. The Company remains responsible for ownership costs such as property taxes and insurance, ground rent, and capital expenditures. As a result of the restructuring described above, hotel-level revenue is reflected in the Company’s financial statements as “Hotel operating revenue” and hotel-level expense is reflected as “Hotel operating expense.” The Company’s TRSs may pay corporate level income tax and may retain any after-tax income. The Company had hotels operating under the previous structure during part of 2004. Management Conversion of Marriott-Managed Hotels. Between April 2003 and August 2003, the Company, the IH Lessee, and Marriott International, Inc. and various affiliates thereof (collectively, “Marriott”) completed a transaction under which the IH Lessee (1) converted the agreements under which 17 of our hotels were franchised and managed by Marriott into long-term franchise agreements with Marriott and (2) became the manager of the hotels. The TRSs assumed the IH Lessee’s obligations under the agreements executed in connection with this transaction. Under those agreements, the TRSs will pay Marriott (1) a franchise fee of 6.5% of room revenues for the first ten years of each franchise agreement and a 5% royalty thereafter and (2) $850,000 plus 50% of aggregate available cash flow (as defined in the agreement with Marriott) in excess of a specified threshold each year for 10 years, beginning in 2004 (the “Conversion Fee”). We refer to this transaction as the “Marriott Takeback Transaction.” (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments The Company is in the business of acquiring equity interests in hotels and limits its activities to one industry segment. 3 Table of Contents (c) Narrative Description of Business General. The Company is a self-administered Maryland real estate investment trust, which owned equity interests in 70 Hotels with an aggregate of 8,825 rooms/suites at December 31, 2005. Innkeepers had 24 employees at December 31, 2005. Internal Growth Strategy. The Company seeks to maximize revenue and profit at its hotels through: (i) aggressive asset management, which includes insuring that its hotel managers maximize the franchise brands’ marketing programs, developing timely sales management policies and plans, developing operational initiatives for the Hotels that increase guest satisfaction, maximizing property management efficiencies, and controlling cost, and (ii) continuing reinvestment in the hotels. Property Operations—The IH Manager. The Company believes that the quality of the on-site hotel operators is important to the future growth in revenue from the Hotels. The IH Manager generally is required to perform or provide for all operational and management functions necessary to operate the Hotels. The IH manager uses both a centralized and decentralized approach. Hotel-level personnel handle front desk operations, housekeeping, direct sales and marketing, and preventive maintenance and repairs. The IH Manager handles on a centralized basis functions such as financial reporting, accounting and payroll, human resources, revenue management, purchasing and risk management. Sales and Revenue Management. The IH Manager utilizes regional sales management oversight to coordinate, direct and manage the sales activities of personnel located at each hotel. Each property has a detailed annual marketing plan as well as regularly updated action plans that outline the strategy relative to corporate accounts, market segments, group revenue and special event goals. As of December 31, 2005, the IH Manager employed three regional directors of sales and dedicated sales associates at each hotel to lead sales efforts. The regional directors serve as a liaison to national corporate customers as well as the franchise brands’ national sales representatives, to maximize revenue and to minimize potential customer loss to the competitors. The regional directors are responsible for overseeing the development and execution of targeted action plans as well as recruiting and developing “Best of Class” sales representation. The IH manager employs a corporate revenue management team to provide tools that assist in increasing revenue efficiency. The revenue management team offers leadership, guidance and expertise through daily calls to support the hotels’ planning and execution of fundamental revenue management principles. This includes pricing relative to market demand and competitive pricing; assisting in the establishment of corporate account rates and group pricing; yield management tactics; and turndown and market share analysis. Additionally, this team ensures that each property maximizes the franchise brands’ reservation system contribution capabilities. Capital Improvements, Renovation and Refurbishment. The Company intends to maintain its hotels in a condition that complies with their respective franchise licenses, among other requirements. In addition, the Company may upgrade hotels in order to capitalize on opportunities to increase revenue, and as needed to meet competitive conditions and preserve asset quality. The Company may also renovate or expand hotels when it believes the investment in renovations will provide an attractive return to the Company through increased revenue or is otherwise in the best interests of the Company. The Company spent approximately $17 million, $25 million and $27 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for furniture, fixtures and equipment and certain other capital expenditures at the hotels owned during these periods. These amounts exclude acquisition, development, and conversion costs. The Company expects to spend approximately $25 million, excluding acquisition, conversion and development costs, for such purposes in 2006. Franchise Agreements. We seek to affiliate our hotels with premier franchise companies and brands that offer robust marketing support and services and that have demonstrated their ability to command revenue premiums over other brands. Our hotels operate under the Residence Inn by Marriott, Summerfield Suites, Homewood Suites by Hilton, Doubletree Guest Suites, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Courtyard by Marriott, 4 Table of Contents Hampton Inn, and TownPlace Suites brands. The franchise licenses for our hotels are held by our TRSs. The franchise agreements require the payment of fees based on a percentage of hotel room revenue. The franchisors periodically inspect their licensed hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The results of these inspections can result in additional capital expenditure requirements, or additional operational, marketing or repairs and maintenance expenses. The Company or its subsidiaries have guaranteed certain obligations of TRSs under the franchise licenses. Acquisition and Development Strategy. The Company’s primary acquisition and development strategy includes acquiring or developing hotels that are upscale and upscale extended-stay, which are located in markets with relatively high barriers to entry and/or strong demand characteristics. The Company also seeks to selectively acquire under-performing hotels to which it can add value through repositioning in the market, renovation or re-flagging to premium hotel brands. Target Markets. The Company generally focuses on markets that have high barriers to entry relative to other markets and is emphasizing markets that include northern New Jersey, the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, and southern California. The Company’s preferred markets are generally characterized by scarcity or high cost of available land, extensive permit approval requirements, restrictive zoning, stringent local development laws, a relatively long lead time required to develop an upscale or an upscale extended-stay hotel and relatively higher costs associated with such development. In addition, the Company seeks out submarkets within favorable regions that have multiple fast-growing demand generators, such as major office or manufacturing complexes, airports, major colleges and universities and medical centers with convenient access to major thoroughfares. The Company currently has hotels in 20 states and Washington, D.C. Target Customer. Most of the Company’s existing hotels are generally focused on the business customer. It is the Company’s intent to continue to seek to acquire hotels that cater principally to business travelers, but the Company also is actively seeking to acquire hotels that target families and leisure travelers. Acquisition of Upscale, Upscale extended-stay and Mid-Priced hotels. The Company focuses on acquiring upscale extended-stay hotels because of the strong performance of that segment, which has resulted primarily from (i) the prevailing social and economic forces that increase the demand for upscale extended-stay hotels, including the increasing tendency of businesses to conduct on- and off-site training for employees, corporate out-sourcing and the use of consultants, and the general increased mobility of the United States workforce, and (ii) the ability to generate a more consistent revenue stream than traditional hotels due to higher average occupancies and longer average stays. Upscale extended-stay hotels also require less staff and have lower fixed costs than full-service hotels and are designed and operated in a way that typically has resulted in higher operating margins than most full-service hotels. Forty nine of our hotels are in the upscale extended-stay segment. The Company also focuses on opportunistically acquiring upscale and mid-priced hotels in order to diversify the portfolio. The Company acquired several upscale and mid-priced hotels in 2005. In January 2005, the Company acquired an existing 83-room Hampton Inn hotel in Columbia, Maryland for $10 million, including closing costs and anticipated capital expenditures. In January 2005, the Company acquired an existing 190-room hotel in Montvale, NJ, for $18 million, including closing costs. The Company closed the hotel to begin a $6 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott which is expected to open in 2006. In May 2005, the Company acquired the newly renovated 224-room Westin Governor Morris hotel in Morristown, N.J. for $35.1 million. In November 2005, the Company acquired an existing 80-room limited service hotel in Boston, MA, for $19.6 million, including closing costs. Acquisition of Under-Performing hotels. Although our primary focus is on the upscale and upscale extended-stay market, the Company will from time to time consider acquisition of under-performing mid-priced and full-service hotels that have the potential for strategic repositioning in the market or re-flagging to a premium franchise brand in the upscale segment, or that can benefit from substantial renovation. Generally, hotels that meet the Company’s investment criteria include (i) poorly managed hotels that have the potential for increased performance following the introduction of a quality management team, (ii) hotels in a deteriorated physical 5 Table of Contents condition that could benefit significantly from renovation, and/or (iii) hotels in attractive locations that the Company believes could benefit significantly by changing franchises to a brand the Company believes is superior, such as Hampton Inn or Courtyard by Marriott. In June 2003, the Company acquired an existing 203-room hotel located in Atlantic City, NJ for $8.6 million. The Company closed the hotel in October 2004 to begin a $15.0 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott. In June 2004, the Company acquired an existing 182-room hotel in Louisville, KY for $6.4 million. The Company closed the hotel in October 2004 to begin a $5.0 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Hampton Inn, which opened in August 2005. In January 2005, the Company acquired an existing 190-room hotel in Montvale, NJ, for $18 million. The Company closed the hotel to begin a $6 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott, which is expected to open in 2006. Development. The Company also reviews other development opportunities for hotels that are consistent with its target market, product and brand strategies. The Company intends to only pursue selective development of hotels that meet its underwriting requirements (i) when the Company believes that projected incremental returns adequately compensate for the costs and any incremental risk assumed by the Company, (ii) when the Company believes that a hotel developed by the Company will create or increase synergies with other Company-owned hotels in the area that will enhance the performance of all of those hotels or (iii) in order to maintain control of a site determined to have superior hotel potential. In September 2002, the Company developed and opened a 174-room Residence Inn hotel located in Saddle River, NJ for $23.0 million. In September 2004, the Company acquired a land site in Valencia, CA for $3.7 million to develop a 157-suite Embassy Suites Hotel for $21.0 million, which is expected to open in late 2006 or early 2007. The Company is actively pursuing several other development opportunities in its target markets. Hotel Disposition Strategy. The Company disposes of certain hotels when it believes (i) a superior return can be generated because of rapid price appreciation or re-development opportunities, and the proceeds can be redeployed to generate more income; (ii) the operating performance of the hotel has been maximized and it can sell on a favorable basis, (iii) the operating performance of a hotel is declining and will continue to decline due to new competitors opening in the market or the loss of demand generators, (iv) the franchise affiliation of the hotel no longer is complementary to the Company’s long-term strategic initiatives or (v) the cost of franchisor requirements for the hotel becomes unattractive in light of the performance and prospects for the hotel. During 2005, the Company sold three hotels for total proceeds of $21.3 million. Available Information. The Company’s Internet website is www.innkeepersusa.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the Company’s website includes corporate governance information, including the charters for committees of the Board of Trustees, the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Company’s Code of Conduct. This information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it by writing to Investor Relations, Innkeepers USA Trust, 340 Royal Poinciana Way, Suite 306, Palm Beach, FL 33480. The information on the Company’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings that we make with the SEC. 6 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company is subject to significant risks, including those that we disclose in reports filed from time to time with the SEC. See “Risk Factors” beginning on page R-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 