D. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Every Country in Which We Operate Since our business depends heavily on hydrological conditions, drought conditions may hurt our profitability. Approximately 64% of our consolidated installed capacity in Chile, Argentina, Colombia and Peru is hydroelectric. Accordingly, adverse hydrological conditions may negatively affect our business and have a substantial effect on our result of operations. During periods of drought, thermal plants, such as ours that use natural gas, fuel oil or coal as a fuel, are dispatched more frequently. Our operating expenses increase during these periods and, depending on the size of our commitments, we may have to buy electricity from other parties to comply with our contractual supply obligations. The cost of these electricity purchases in the spot market may exceed the price at which we are contractually obligated to sell electricity, thus resulting in losses under these contracts. We have a commercial and risk-reduction policy to mitigate the potential impact of interruptions may have on our ability to supply electricity, including those caused by droughts, interruptions in gas supply and prolonged plant stoppages. Pursuant to this policy, a volume of contracts is determined for each generation company that reduces the risks to specific levels, assured by a degree of statistical reliability of 95%. Any contracts for volumes that exceed this 95% level must include clauses that shift the risk of interruptions to our customers. Despite this risk reduction policy, a prolonged drought could adversely affect our results. Regulatory authorities may impose fines on us. In Chile, our electricity businesses may be subject to regulatory fines for any violation of existing regulations, including energy supply failure. Such fines may range from 1 Unidad Tributaria Mensual (“UTM”), or $ 60, to 10,000 Unidades Tributarias Anuales (“UTA”), or $ 7.2 million using the UTM, UTA and foreign exchange rate as of December 31, 2006. Any electricity company supervised by the Superintendencia de Electricidad y Combustibles, the Chilean Superintendency of Electricity and Fuels, or SEF, may be subject to these fines, which 11 Table of Contents apply in cases where, in the opinion of the SEF, operational failures that affect the regular energy supply to the system are the fault of such company. These fines may be appealed. An electricity company supervised by the SEF may be subject to fines when the electricity system experiences operating failures, even when it is outside of the company’s control to react to prevent such failures. Our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay fines or to compensate customers if those subsidiaries are unable to deliver electricity to them, even if such failure is due to forces outside of our control. In 2003, the SEF imposed fines on some of our Chilean generation subsidiaries in an aggregate amount of 5,330 UTA, or $ 3.8 million, due to a failure to transmit energy in the Metropolitan Region on September 23, 2002. In 2004, the SEF imposed fines on us of an aggregate amount of 2,030 UTA. These fines have been reduced since then by an administrative resolution of the SEF to 1,610 UTA, or $ 1.2 million. On July 4, 2005, the SEF imposed fines on us of 1,260 UTA, or $ 0.9 million, due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region on November 7, 2003. Our subsidiaries are currently appealing these fines, but these appeals may be unsuccessful. Governmental regulations may impose additional operating costs which may reduce our profits. We are subject to extensive regulation of tariffs and other aspects of our business in the countries in which we operate and these regulations may affect our profitability adversely. In addition, changes in the regulatory framework, including changes that if adopted would significantly affect our operations, are often submitted to the legislators and administrative authorities in the countries in which we operate and could have a material adverse impact on our business. In Chile, if we are unable to comply with our contractual obligations during electricity rationing periods, we may be subject to higher operating costs. The Chilean government can impose electricity rationing during drought conditions or prolonged failures in the country’s thermoelectric facilities. If we are unable to generate enough electricity during a rationing period to comply with our contractual obligations, we may be forced to purchase electricity in the pool market at the spot price, since a drought no longer constitutes a force majeure event. The spot price may be significantly higher than our costs to generate the electricity and can be as high as the “cost of failure” set by the Comisión Nacional de Energía (National Energy Commission), or the CNE. The “cost of failure” is determined by the CNE’s economic models as the highest cost of electricity during periods of electricity shortage. If we are unable to purchase sufficient electricity in the pool market to comply with all of our contractual obligations, then we would have to compensate our regulated customers for the volume we failed to provide at the “rationed end-consumer price.” If material rationing policies are imposed by regulatory authorities in Chile, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Similarly, if material rationing policies are imposed by any regulatory authority as a result of adverse hydrological conditions in the countries in which we operate, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Rationing periods may occur in the future, and consequently our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay regulatory penalties if such subsidiaries fail to provide adequate service under such conditions. Approximately 76% of the installed capacity of our Chilean generation subsidiaries is hydroelectric. These generation companies own unlimited duration, unconditional and absolute property water rights granted by the Chilean Water Authority. However, in March 2005, Chilean Congress approved an amendment to the laws governing unused water rights. As a result of the amendment, since January 1, 2006, Chilean generation companies have had to pay an annual license fee for unused water rights. The corresponding expense for Endesa Chile in 2006 was 70,816 UTM (equivalent to $ 4.3 million). We are continuously analyzing which water rights we will maintain for the future and which we will disregard. If we determine that some water rights will not be used for a future project, we will abandon such water rights in order to avoid liability for license fees. License fees paid during the eight years prior to the commencement of any project use of such water rights, may be recovered through a monthly tax credit until the license fee payments are fully recovered. In the case of water rights located in the extreme south of Chile (the eleventh and twelfth regions, outside the area comprised by the SIC), the license fees will be paid starting as of January 1, 2012, using the same tax refund regime mentioned above for the SIC. In May 2001, the Ministry of Economy issued Resolution 88, under which electricity generators such as ours are required to provide electricity to distribution companies that have been unable to contract adequate supply to 12 Table of Contents deliver to their customers. The most recent amendment to the electricity law, in May 2005, called Short Law II, established a mechanism of transitory compensations, under which until December 31, 2008, energy sales derived from Resolution 88 are to be carried out at the spot price rather than the node price. On July 26, 2006 the authority adopted Resolution 25 extending this transitory compensation mechanism until December 31, 2009. For a more complete discussion of this topic, see “Item 4. Information on the Company B. Business Overview––Electricity Generation in Chile–Industry Structure and Regulatory Framework”. Environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our costs of operations Our operating subsidiaries are also subject to environmental regulations, which, among other things, require us to perform environmental impact studies for future projects and obtain permits from both local and national regulators. Approval of these environmental impact studies may be withheld by governmental authorities, public opposition may result in delays or modifications to any proposed project and laws or regulations may change or be interpreted in a way that could adversely affect our operations or our plans for companies in which we hold investments. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—D. Property, plants and equipment—Environmental Issues.” Foreign exchange risks may materially affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. The peso and the other South American currencies in which we and our subsidiaries operate have historically been subject to large devaluations and appreciations against the dollar and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Historically, a significant portion of our consolidated indebtedness has been denominated in dollars and, although a substantial portion of our revenues are partially linked to dollars, we generally have been and will continue to have material exposure to fluctuations in our local currencies against the dollar because of time lags and other limitations in the indexing of our tariffs to the dollar. Because of this exposure, the cash generated by our subsidiaries can be diminished materially when our local currencies devalue against the dollar. Future volatility in the exchange rate of the peso, and the other currencies in which we receive revenues or incur expenditures, to the dollar, may affect our financial condition and results from operations. For more information on the risks associated with foreign exchange rates, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” As of December 31, 2006, Endesa Chile had total consolidated financial debt of $3,904 million (net of currency hedging instruments) of which amount, $ 2,579 million was denominated in dollars. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006, our revenues amounted to $ 2,512 million, of which 18% were denominated in dollars, and 44% were linked in some way to the dollar. On the other hand, the equivalent of $ 115 million were revenues in pesos. In addition to the dollar and the peso, our foreign currency denominated consolidated indebtedness included the equivalent of $ 675 million in Colombian pesos $ 164 million in soles and $32 million in Argentine pesos. Revenues before consolidation adjustments in these other currencies for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006, included the equivalent of $ 285 million in Colombian pesos, $ 441 million in Argentine pesos, and $ 106 million in soles. Although we both generate revenues and incur debt in these same currencies, we believe that we are subject to risk in terms of our foreign exchange exposure to these four currencies. The most material case is that of Argentina, where the principal amount of our debt is denominated in dollars while our revenues are mostly in Argentine pesos. We may be subject to refinancing risk. As of December 31, 2006, on a consolidated basis, we had $ 338 million of indebtedness maturing in 2007, $614 million in 2008, $ 918 million in 2009 (holders of certain Yankee Bonds can exercise a put option on February 1, 2009), $ 403 million in 2010, $ 220 million in 2011 and $ 1,411 million maturing thereafter. This same $338 million indebtedness, divided by country, is as follows: $ 75 million in Argentina, $ 107 million in Colombia, $108 million in Peru, and $ 48 million in Chile. We are subject to certain fairly standard financial covenants including maximum ratios of indebtedness to adjusted cash flow, indebtedness to EBITDA, debt to equity and minimum ratios of adjusted cash flow to interest expense. In addition, most of our indebtedness contains cross-default provisions, generally triggered by default on 13 Table of Contents other indebtedness that exceeds $30 million on an individual basis. In the event that any of our cross-default provisions is triggered and our existing creditors demand immediate repayment, a significant portion of Endesa Chile’s indebtedness, on a stand-alone basis, could become due and payable. For more information on some of these covenants and certain relevant provisions for these credit facilities, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or obtain such refinancing on terms acceptable to us. In the absence of such refinancing, we could be forced to dispose of assets in order to make up for any shortfall in the payments due on our indebtedness under circumstances that might not be favorable to obtaining the best price for such assets. Furthermore, assets may not be sold quickly enough, or for amounts sufficient to enable us to make such payments. As of the date of this Report, our subsidiaries in Argentina are exposed to the gratest refinancing risk. As of December 31, 2006, the third-party financial debt of our Argentine subsidiaries (Endesa Costanera and El Chocón) was $ 327 million. As a matter of policy for all of our Argentine subsidiaries, as long as the foreign currency restrictions remain in Argentina and fundamental issues concerning the electricity sector remain unresolved, we are rolling over most of our outstanding debt. If our creditors do not continue to accept, or the Argentine Central Bank will not continue to permit, rolling over debt principal when it becomes due, we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us. We depend in part on payments from our subsidiaries and related companies to meet our payment obligations. In order to pay our obligations, we rely in part on cash from dividends, loans, interest payments, capital reductions and other distributions from our subsidiaries and equity affiliates. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, interest payments, loans and other distributions to us is subject to legal constraints such as dividend restrictions, fiduciary duties, contractual limitations and foreign exchange controls that may be imposed in any of the five countries where our subsidiaries and equity affiliates operate. Our subsidiaries and equity affiliates may be additionally limited by their operating results. We have generally been able to access the cash flows of our Chilean subsidiaries. We have not similarly been able to access the cash flows of our non-Chilean operating subsidiaries due to government regulations, strategic considerations, economic conditions and credit restrictions. Our future results of operations outside Chile may continue to be subject to greater economic and political uncertainties than what we have experienced in Chile, thereby affecting our ability to receive cash flow from operations in those entities to repay our debt. Dividend Limits and Other Legal Restrictions. We and our Chilean subsidiaries are subject to customary legal restrictions limiting the amount of dividend distributions. Some of our non-Chilean subsidiaries are also subject to legal reserve requirements and other restrictions on dividend payments. In addition, the ability of any of our non-wholly-owned subsidiaries to upstream cash to us may be limited by the fiduciary duties of the directors of such subsidiaries to their minority shareholders. As a consequence of such duties, our subsidiaries could, under certain circumstances, be prevented from upstreaming cash to us. Contractual Constraints. Upstreaming restrictions in our subsidiaries’ contractual agreements include: • prohibitions against dividend distributions by Empresa Eléctrica Pangue S.A., or Pangue, our Chilean generation subsidiary, if it is not in compliance with certain debt to equity ratios and debt coverage ratios (each as defined in Pangue’s credit agreements); • prohibitions against dividend distributions, capital reductions, intercompany interest payments and debt repayment by Endesa Costanera and El Chocón in Argentina, in each case if not in compliance with certain financial conditions. 14 Table of Contents Operating Results of Our Subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends or make loan payments or other distributions to us may be limited by their operating results. To the extent that the cash requirements at any of our subsidiaries exceeds available cash, such subsidiary will not be able to make cash available to us. Foreign Currency Controls. The ability of our non-Chilean subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends and make loan payments or other distributions to us may be subject to emergency restrictions that may be imposed by Central Banks or other governmental authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, the Central Bank of Argentina imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina. The Argentine natural gas crisis has increased the vulnerability of the electricity sector in Chile. Since 2004, Chile has been affected by increasing restrictions on the supply of natural gas from Argentina. In Argentina, the mandatory low prices imposed by regulators on natural gas has directly affected production and investment in natural gas fields, which has impacted the short- and medium-term availability of this fuel both in Chile and in Argentina. A natural gas shortage may force electricity generation companies, including ours, to use more expensive fuel oil, thus substantially increasing production costs when dispatched. Demand for electricity in Chile’s central region electricity system increased by 6.6% in 2006 and is expected to continue to increase significantly in the foreseeable future. Increasing demand, combined with the low level of mid-term investment in the electricity sector, makes the Chilean electricity sector vulnerable to the adverse effects of the Argentine natural gas crisis. Our combined cycle plant, San Isidro, which operates with natural gas and diesel oil, our two unit gas turbine Taltal, which operates one unit with natural gas and the other with either natural gas or diesel oil, and our related company GasAtacama, which operates with natural gas and diesel oil, each has gas contracts with Argentine suppliers and may be affected adversely by restrictions of natural gas from Argentina. The materiality of the impact will depend on the level of natural gas restrictions from Argentina and the contractual commitments of each company. South American economic fluctuations are likely to affect our results from operations. All of our operations are located in South America. Although we initially only operated Chile, we have, through strategic acquisitions and investments, expanded our operations throughout South America. In 2006, we generated approximately 55% of our consolidated operating revenues and approximately 59% of our consolidated operating income outside of Chile. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues are sensitive to the performance of the South American economies as a whole. If local, regional or worldwide economic trends adversely affect, in a material way, the economy of any of the countries in which we have investments or operations, our financial condition and results from operations could also be affected adversely in a material way. The South American financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country can have significant effects on the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Chilean financial and securities markets may be affected adversely by events in other countries, especially in other emerging markets, and such effects may affect the value of our securities. Moreover, we have significant investments in relatively risky non-Chilean countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. Generation and upstreaming of cash from subsidiaries in these countries have proven to be volatile. Certain South American economies have been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by governmental authorities which may affect our business adversely. Governmental authorities have changed monetary, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of the economy in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. These governments’ efforts to control inflation and effect other policies have often involved wage, price and tariff rate controls as well as other interventionist measures, which have included freezing bank accounts and imposing capital controls. Changes in the policies of these governmental authorities with respect to tariff rates, exchange controls, regulations and taxation could affect our business and financial results adversely in a material way. Inflation, devaluation, social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments, including the response by governments in the region to such circumstances. If 15 Table of Contents governmental authorities intervene materially in any of the countries in which we operate, it could cause our business to be less profitable, and our results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Construction of new facilities may be affected adversely by factors associated with new construction projects. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to build new facilities include: delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including environmental permits; shortages or changes in the prices of equipment, materials or labor; local opposition of political, environmental and ethnic groups; adverse changes in the political and regulatory environment in the countries where we and our related companies operate; adverse weather conditions, which may delay the completion of power plants or substations, or natural disasters, accidents or other unforeseen events; and the inability to obtain financing at affordable rates. Any of these factors may cause delays in the completion of all or part of our capital investments program and may increase the cost of the projects. We are currently involved in various litigation proceedings. Litigation proceedings may result in unfavorable decisions or financial penalties for us, and we will continue to be subject to future litigation proceedings, which could have material adverse consequences to our business. We are party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. Some of these claims may be resolved against us. Our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected to a material extent if certain of these material claims are resolved against us. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” There may be potential conflicts of interest with our affiliates which could adversely affect our business. ENDESA, S.A. currently owns 60.6% of Enersis’ share capital, and Enersis has a 60.0% share interest in Endesa Chile. Therefore, ENDESA, S.A. and Enersis have the power to determine the outcome of most material matters that must be approved by our shareholders, such as the election of our board members and, subject to contractual and legal restrictions, the distribution of dividends. ENDESA, S.A. and Enersis can also influence our operations and business strategies. ENDESA, S.A. conducts its business in South America primarily through Enersis and Endesa Chile, but also through affiliates not consolidated by us. Certain of our directors are officers of ENDESA, S.A. and officers or directors of certain subsidiaries of ENDESA, S.A.. For more information about these directors please refer to “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees – Directors and Senior Management.” We sell electricity to other companies controlled by ENDESA, S.A. at regulated prices and have entered into contracts for other services with other companies under the common control of ENDESA, S.A. or the “Endesa Group.” To the extent any material conflict arises between our interests and those of ENDESA, S.A.’s other businesses in any jurisdiction in South America, ENDESA, S.A. may have a conflict of interest which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have outstanding credit facilities with “change of control” provisions which could result in acceleration rights on such indebtedness. At the time of this report, several companies have made tender offers for the control of ENDESA, S.A., which owns 60.6% of Enersis, our parent company. In this context, some of our credit facilities have “change of control” provisions. As of December 31, 2006, $ 821 million of Endesa Chile’s consolidated indebtedness had some kind of “change of control” provision, either in the form of a negative covenant, a mandatory prepayment or otherwise. However, of that amount, $ 258 million in Endesa Chile’s subsidiaries’ contracts either (a) require a preliminary merger or spin-off prior to triggering such change of control provision, or (b) the change of control provision does not apply to ENDESA, S.A. but to other companies. A total of $ 100 million in bank indebtedness incurred by Endesa Chile has “change of control provisions” which specifically refer to ENDESA, S.A., directly or indirectly, as the controlling entity. If a change of control 16 Table of Contents were to take place, Endesa Chile, and our subsidiaries, would need to seek the appropriate contractual waivers or amendments. This $ 100 million of Endesa Chile bank indebtedness subject to “change of control” provisions is found in revolving credit instruments governed by the laws of New York, in which lenders on an individual basis, would be given rights to accelerate payment in the event that ENDESA, S.A. is no longer, directly or indirectly, the ultimate controlling parent, and the new controlling entity has a rating lower (including with respect to outlook) to the unsecured long-term foreign currency rating of ENDESA, S.A., as rated by each of S&P and Moody’s immediately prior to giving effect to a transaction involving a change of control. ENDESA, S.A.’s applicable ratings as of this Report are “A3 with negative outlook” according to Moody’s, “A with negative outlook” according to S&P, and “A+ under review” from Fitch. If a tender offer for Endesa Spain is successful, and if a change of control were to take place, and we are not successful in obtaining certain waivers or amendments, the lenders under these facilities would have the ability to accelerate such debt and make it immediately due and payable. For more detailed information on Endesa Chile’s contractual provisions, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity & Capital Resources.” The values of our long-term energy supply contracts are subject to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities. We have economic exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities as a result of the long term energy sales contracts into which we have entered. We have material obligations under long-term fixed-price electricity sales contracts, the values of which fluctuate with the market price of electricity. In addition, our generation subsidiaries have material obligations as selling parties under long-term energy supply contracts with prices that vary in accordance with the market price of electricity, water levels in our reservoirs, the market prices of primary materials such as natural gas, oil, coal and other energy-related products, and the exchange rate of the dollar. Changes in the market price of these commodities and the exchange rate do not always correlate with changes in the market price of electricity or with our cost of production of electricity. Accordingly, there may be times when the price paid to us under these contracts is less than our cost of production or acquisition of electricity. We do not carry out transactions in commodity derivative instruments to manage our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. Under Chilean GAAP, our income statement does not reflect fluctuations of the fair value of our long-term energy contracts, although we are required to do so under GAAP. For further discussion, please refer to “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risk” in this annual report. Risk Factors Relating to Chile Our business is dependent on the Chilean economy and our revenues are sensitive to its performance. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in Chile and, accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are, to a certain extent, dependent on prevailing economic conditions in Chile. In 2006, the Chilean economy grew by an estimated 4.2% compared to a 6.3% increase in 2005 and a 6.1% growth in 2004. The latest Chilean Central Bank estimate for growth for 2007 is a range between 4.7% and 5.4%. There can be no assurance that such growth will be achieved, that the growth trend will continue in the future, or that future developments in the Chilean economy will not impair our ability to proceed with our strategic plans or impact our financial condition or results from operations adversely. Our financial condition and results from operations might also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations can also be affected by other political or economic developments in Chile as well as regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities over which we have no control. Lawsuits against us brought outside of Chile or complaints against us based on foreign legal concepts may be unsuccessful. We are incorporated under the laws of Chile and substantially all of our assets are located in Chile or outside the United States. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of their assets are located outside the United States. If any shareholder were to bring a lawsuit against our directors, officers or experts in the United States, it may be difficult for him to deliver service of legal process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them, in United States courts or Chilean courts, judgments obtained in United States 17 Table of Contents courts based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile on the basis of solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Foreign exchange risks may affect the dollar amount of dividends payable to holders of our ADSs adversely. Chilean trading in the shares of common stock underlying the ADSs is conducted in pesos. Our depositary bank will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs in pesos. The depositary bank will convert such pesos to dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments with respect to the ADSs. If the peso depreciates against the dollar, the value of the ADSs and the dollar equivalent of distributions ADS holders receive from the depositary bank may also decrease. The relative illiquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets could affect the price of our ADSs and common stock adversely. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be affected materially by developments in other emerging markets. The low liquidity of the Chilean market may impair the ability of holders of ADSs to sell shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS program into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time they wish to do so. Risk Factors Relating to Argentina Electricity shortfalls in Argentina adversely affect the Argentine generation export business to Brazil. In the last few years, the insufficient electricity available in Argentina has not allowed Argentine generators, such as Endesa Costanera, our Argentine generation subsidiary, to comply with export contracts to Brazil. As a result, Endesa Costanera requested from its Brazilian customers, a contractual amendment in order to restore its financial and economic equilibrium but, as of the date of this Report, no amendment agreement has been reached. On December 9, 2005, the Argentine and Brazilian governments signed a Memorandum of Understanding, which facilitates the operation of export contracts without the imposition of fines for any non-compliance through a transitional period expected to end by December 31, 2008. By that time, we expect that the Argentine electricity supply should be fully reestablished. However, we can give no assurances that Endesa Costanera will be able to achieve a desired financial and economic equilibrium or that the full Argentine electricity supply will be reestablished before the termination date of the Memorandum of Understanding The growing electricity demand and the lack of investment in Argentina produced shortages in the electric power system during 2006, primarily in the summer and winter months due to the seasonality for power consumption. Risk Factors Relating to Peru We may suffer losses as a result of satisfying non-contractual demand from distribution companies at the node price instead of the spot price of electricity. In 2004, electricity generators in Peru agreed to satisfy non-contractual demand for the regulated market at the node price through 2007. Each generator has been supplying energy in proportion to its share of the country’s installed capacity. This agreement exposes each generation company to potential losses as a result of differences between the node price and the marginal cost of electricity because a generator may be required to purchase electricity at higher prices in the spot market and resell it at fixed node prices. During 2006, additional distribution company contracts expired and the system operator of the system continued allocating all the non contracted withdrawal of energy to distribution companies in proportion to generators’ installed capacity, thus increasing the risk to generators. The average spot market price in 2006 reached approximately $63 dollars per MWh and the node price averaged approximately $ 36 dollars per MWh. In November 2006, the generation companies and the Peruvian Government agreed on an amendment to the method used to assign the additional energy supplied to distribution companies whose contracts expired during 2006. Such conventions were legally established in December under Urgency Decree 035. 18 Table of Contents Before that, and a direct consequence of this problem, Edegel experienced lack of liquidity, and some financial covenants in certain debt agreements became stressed, forcing the company to request waivers. Regarding non-contracted energy withdrawals for distribution companies in 2007, further laws implemented a bidding regime for the energy and capacity required. The first bids carried out in accordance with such laws took place in December 2006, and as a result, almost all of the demand for 2007 has been successfully covered these regulations will be reinstated after 2007; if not, the price for non-contracted distributor withdrawals are set at node prices, Edegel may be exposed again to losses as a result of differences between the node prices and the marginal cost. Item 