D. Risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Every Country in Which We Operate South American economic fluctuations are likely to affect our results from operations. All of our operations are located in South America. In 2008, we generated 44% of our consolidated operating revenues and 38% of our consolidated operating income outside Chile. Accordingly, our consolidated revenues are sensitive to the performance of South American economies as a whole. If local, regional or worldwide economic trends adversely affect the economy of any of the countries in which we have investments or operations, our financial condition and results from operations could be affected adversely. The South American financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country may have a significant effect on the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Chilean financial and securities markets may be affected adversely by events in other countries and such effects may affect the value of our securities. Moreover, we have significant investments in relatively risky non-Chilean countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. Generation and distribution of cash from subsidiaries in these countries have proven to be volatile. Certain South American economies have been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by governmental authorities, which may affect our business adversely. Governmental authorities have changed monetary, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of the economy of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Peru. These governmental actions were intended to control inflation and affect other policies have often involved wage, price and tariff rate controls as well as other interventionist measures, which have included freezing bank accounts and imposing capital controls, for example, this was the case in Argentina in 2001. In 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the private sector pension funds. Changes in the policies of these governmental authorities with respect to tariff rates, exchange controls, regulations and taxation could affect our business and financial results adversely, as could inflation, devaluation, social instability and other political, economic or diplomatic developments, including the response by governments in the region to such circumstances. If governmental authorities intervene materially in any of the countries in which we operate, it could cause our business to become less profitable, and our results of operations may be affected adversely. The worldwide financial crisis will have a significant adverse effect on our access to bank loans and, to a lesser degree, the capital markets, and a prolonged recession is likely to affect our results of operations. The worldwide credit crisis and its disruptive effect on the financial industry is likely to have an adverse impact on our ability to obtain new bank loans under the terms and conditions that have been available to us until now. Our ability to tap the capital markets in the five countries where we operate, as well as the international capital markets for other sources of liquidity, may also be diminished during the crisis, or such financing may be available only at interest levels higher than those we have experienced until now, leading to an increase in interest expense and reduced cash flows. Reduced liquidity could, in turn, affect our capital expenditures, our long-term investments and acquisitions, our growth prospects, as well as our dividend payout policy. In addition, to the extent that the five countries in which we operate experience a prolonged recession, it is likely that our customers will demand less electricity than in the past, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. Furthermore, some of our customers may experience difficulties in paying their electricity bills, and an increase in uncollectible accounts would also affect our results adversely. We are subject to refinancing risk and to debt covenants that could affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, on a consolidated basis, we had $ 1,051 million of indebtedness maturing in 2009 (including a put option amounting to $ 220 million exercised by holders of certain Yankee Bonds on February 1, 2009 for $ 149 million): · $ 391 million in 2010, · $ 546 million in 2011, 15 Table of Contents · $ 267 million in 2012, · $ 481 million in 2013, and · $ 1,606 million maturing thereafter. The same $ 1,051 million indebtedness, on a country by country basis, is as follows: · $ 110 million in Argentina; · $ 192 million in Colombia; · $ 116 million in Peru; and · $ 633 million in Chile. Our debt agreements are subject to certain fairly standard debt to EBITDA and debt to equity financial covenant ratios, among others. They also contain common affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default, and in some cases, mandatory prepayment events. A substantial portion of our indebtedness contains cross-payment default provisions. In the case of our Yankee Bond indentures, the cross-payment default may be potentially triggered by a default in any amount on our debt or on that of any of our subsidiaries, as long as the principal on the debt giving rise to the cross-payment default exceeds $ 30 million. For our syndicated bank credit agreements under the laws of the State of New York, the materiality threshold for the principal on the debt potentially giving rise to the cross-payment default increases to $ 50 million, and there is an additional clause requiring that at least $ 50 million must be in default as well. Furthermore, the bank debt facilities do not apply to all subsidiaries, as is the case with the Yankee Bonds. In Yankee indentures and the syndicated loan contracts, the cross default is not automatic; instead, a certain minimum quorum of debt holders need to formally request acceleration. Our local Chilean bonds, denominated in UF, on the other hand, have cross default clauses with much higher materiality thresholds than the ones detailed here. Our non-Chilean risk debt facilities normally carry relatively low cross default materiality thresholds, in line with market practice in those countries. In the event that any of our cross-default provisions is triggered and our existing creditors demand immediate repayment, a significant portion of our indebtedness, could become due and payable. For more information on some of these covenants and certain relevant provisions for these credit facilities, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or obtain such refinancing on terms acceptable to us. In the absence of such refinancing, we could be forced to dispose of assets in order to make up for any shortfall in the payments due on our indebtedness under circumstances that might not be favorable to obtaining the best price for such assets. Furthermore, assets may not be sold quickly enough, or for amounts sufficient to enable us to make such payments. As of the date of this Report, Argentina is the country with the greatest refinancing risk. As of December 31, 2008, the third-party financial debt of our Argentine subsidiaries (Endesa Costanera and El Chocón) was $ 314 million. As a matter of policy for all of our Argentine subsidiaries, as long as fundamental issues concerning the electricity sector remain unresolved, we are rolling over most of our outstanding debt. If our creditors do not continue to accept rolling over debt principal when it becomes due, we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms otherwise acceptable to us. Since our business depends heavily on hydrological conditions, drought conditions may affect our profitability. Approximately 62% of our consolidated installed generation capacity is hydroelectric. Accordingly, extreme hydrological conditions affect our business and may have a substantial influence over our results. During periods of drought, thermal plants, such as ours that use natural gas, fuel oil or coal as a fuel, are dispatched more frequently. Our operating expenses increase during these periods and, depending on the size of our commitments, we may have to buy electricity from other parties in order to comply with our contractual supply obligations. The cost of these electricity purchases in the spot market may exceed the price at which we sell contracted electricity, thus producing losses from those contracts. Our generation subsidiaries have a commercial policy in order to limit the potential impact of interruptions to our ability to supply electricity to our customers, including those caused by droughts, interruptions in gas supply and prolonged plant stoppages. Pursuant to this policy, a level of contracts is determined for each generation company 16 Table of Contents by reducing the hydrological risk to acceptable levels, assured by a degree of statistical reliability of 95%. Any contracts for volumes that exceed this 95% level are required to include clauses transferring the risk of interruptions and its related costs to the customers. Notwithstanding this risk-reduction policy, a prolonged drought will adversely affect our results. Governmental regulations may impose additional operating costs which may reduce our profits. We are subject to extensive regulation of tariffs and other aspects of our business in the countries in which we operate and these regulations may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, changes in the regulatory framework, including changes that if adopted would significantly affect our operations, are often submitted to the legislators and administrative authorities in the countries in which we operate and could have a material adverse impact on our business. For instance, in 2005 there was a change in Water Rights Law in Chile that requires us to pay for all the unused water rights. The Chilean government can impose electricity rationing during drought conditions or prolonged failures in power facilities. If, during rationing, we are unable to generate enough electricity to comply with our contractual obligations, we may be forced to buy electricity in the pool market at the spot price, since even a severe drought does not constitute a force majeure event. The spot price may be significantly higher than our costs to generate the electricity and can be as high as the “cost of failure” set by the National Energy Commission, or the CNE. The “cost of failure” is determined semiannually by the CNE’s economic models as the highest cost of electricity during periods of electricity deficit. If we are unable to buy enough electricity in the pool market to comply with all of our contractual obligations, then we would have to compensate our regulated customers for the electricity we failed to provide at the rationed price. If material rationing policies are imposed by regulatory authorities in Chile, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Similarly, if material rationing policies are imposed by any regulatory authority as a result of adverse hydrological conditions in the other countries in which we operate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected adversely in a material way. Rationing periods may occur in the future and, consequently, our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay regulatory penalties if such subsidiaries fail to provide adequate service under such conditions. Regulatory authorities may impose fines on our subsidiaries. In Chile, our electricity businesses may be subject to regulatory fines for any breach of current regulations, including energy supply failure. Such fines may range from 1 Unidad Tributaria Mensual, or $ 59, to 10,000 Unidades Tributarias Anuales, or $ 7.1 million, in each case using the UTM, UTA and foreign exchange rate for December 31, 2008. Any electricity company supervised by the Chilean Superintendence of Electricity and Fuels, or SEF, may be subject to these fines in cases where, in the opinion of the SEF, operational failures that affect the regular energy supply to the system are the fault of such company; for instance, when the coordination duty of the system agents is not fulfilled, even when it is not within the company’s control to prevent such failures Our generation subsidiaries may be required to pay fines or to compensate customers if those subsidiaries are unable to deliver electricity to them even if such failure is due to forces outside of our control. In 2003, the SEF imposed fines on some of our Chilean generation subsidiaries in an aggregate amount of 5,330 UTA, or $ 3.8 million, due to their failure to transmit energy in the Metropolitan Region in 2002. In 2004, the SEF imposed fines on us in an aggregate amount of 2,030 UTA due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region in 2003. As a result of an administrative resolution, these fines have since been reduced to 1,610 UTA, or $ 1.1 million. In 2005, the SEF imposed fines of 1,260 UTA, or $ 0.9 million, on us due to a blackout that occurred in the Metropolitan Region in 2003. On February 17, 2009, the SEF imposed fines on Endesa Chile, Pehuenche and San Isidro for 200, 200 and 100 UTA, respectively, or $ 0.3 million in total, due to an agreement in the CDEC-SIC. We are currently appealing all these fines, but these appeals may be unsuccessful. 17 Table of Contents We depend in part on payments from our subsidiaries and affiliates to meet our payment obligations. In order to pay our obligations, we rely in part on cash from dividends, loans, interest payments, capital reductions and other distributions from our subsidiaries and equity affiliates, as well as cash from proceeds of the issuance of new securities. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends, interest payments, loans and other distributions to us is subject to legal constraints such as dividend restrictions, fiduciary duties, contractual limitations and foreign exchange controls that may be imposed in any of the five countries where they operate. Historically, we have been able to access the cash flows of our Chilean subsidiaries, but we have not been similarly able to access at all times the cash flows of all of our non-Chilean operating subsidiaries due to government regulations, strategic considerations, economic conditions, and credit restrictions. Our future results from operations outside Chile may continue to be subject to greater economic and political uncertainties than what we have experienced in Chile, thereby reducing the likelihood that we will be able to rely on cash flow from operations in those entities to repay our debt. Dividend Limits and Other Legal Restrictions. Some of our non-Chilean subsidiaries are subject to legal reserve requirements and other restrictions on dividend payments. In addition, the ability of any of our subsidiaries which are not wholly-owned to distribute cash to us may be limited by the fiduciary duties of the directors of such subsidiaries to their minority shareholders. As a consequence of such duties, our subsidiaries could, under certain circumstances, be prevented from distributing cash to us. Contractual Constraints. Distribution restrictions in our subsidiaries’ contractual agreements include the following: prohibitions against dividend distributions by many companies in the case of default, in Empresa Eléctrica Pangue S.A., or Pangue, one of our Chilean generation subsidiaries, if it is not in compliance with certain debt-to-equity ratio and debt coverage ratio (in each case, as defined in Pangue’s credit agreement that matures in January 2010); prohibitions against dividend distributions, capital reductions, intercompany interest payments and debt repayment by Endesa Costanera and El Chocón in Argentina, in each case in the case of default and if not in compliance with certain financial ratios. Operating Results of Our Subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends or make loan payments or other distributions to us is limited by their operating results. To the extent that the cash requirements at any of our subsidiaries exceed available cash, such subsidiary will not be able to make cash available to us. Foreign Currency Controls. The ability of our non-Chilean subsidiaries and equity affiliates to pay dividends and make loan payments or other distributions to us may be subject to emergency restrictions that may be imposed by Central Banks or other governmental authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, during the economic crisis in Argentina, the Central Bank of Argentina imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside the country. Foreign exchange risks may adversely affect our results and the dollar value of dividends payable to ADS holders The South American currencies in which we and our subsidiaries operate have been subject to large devaluations and appreciations against the dollar and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. Historically, a significant portion of our consolidated indebtedness has been denominated in dollars and, although a substantial portion of our revenues are linked to dollars, we generally have been and will continue to be materially exposed to fluctuations of our local currencies against the dollar because of time lags and other limitations in the indexation of our tariffs to the dollar. Because of this exposure the cash generated by our subsidiaries can be diminished materially when the local currencies devalue against the dollar. Future volatility in the exchange rate of the currencies in which we receive revenues or incur expenditures, may affect our financial condition and results from operations. For more information on the risks associated with foreign exchange rates, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 18 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, using financial instead of accounting conventions, Endesa Chile’s total consolidated financial debt was $ 4,343 million (net of currency hedging instruments). Of this amount $ 2,798 million, or 64%, was denominated in dollars and $ 658 million was denominated in pesos. In addition to the dollar and the peso, our foreign currency denominated consolidated indebtedness included the equivalent of: · $ 694 million in Colombian pesos, · $ 149 million in soles, and, · $ 45 million in Argentine pesos, for an aggregate of $ 1,546 million in currencies other than dollars. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008, our operating revenues amounted to $ 3,915 million of which: · $ 744 million, or 19%, was denominated in dollars, · $ 1,916 million, or 49%, was linked in some way to the dollar, and · $ 88 million were revenues in pesos. In the aggregate, 68% of our revenues was either in dollars or tied to dollars through some form of indexation. Revenues before consolidation adjustments in other currencies for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008, included the equivalent of $ 542 million in Colombian pesos, $ 5,555 million in Argentine pesos, and $ 70 million in soles. Despite the fact that we generate revenues and incur debt in these same currencies, we believe that we are subject to risk in terms of our foreign exchange exposure to these four currencies. The most material case is that of Argentina, where most of our debt is denominated in dollars while our revenues are mostly in Argentine pesos. Furthermore, trading in the shares of our common stock underlying American Depositary Shares (ADSs) is conducted in pesos. Our depositary bank will receive cash distributions that we make with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs in pesos. The depositary bank will convert such pesos to dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate to make dividend and other distribution payments in respect of ADSs. If the peso depreciates against the dollar, the value of the ADSs and any dollar distributions ADS holders receive from the depositary bank will decrease. Construction of new facilities may be affected adversely by factors associated with these projects. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to build new facilities include: delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including environmental permits; shortages or increase in the prices of equipment, materials or labor; opposition by local or international political, environmental and ethnic groups; strikes; adverse changes in the political and regulatory environment in the countries where we and our affiliates operate; adverse weather conditions; natural disasters, accidents or other unforeseen events; and the inability to obtain financing at affordable rates. Any of these factors may cause delays in the completion of all or part of our capital investments program and may increase the cost of the projects. We are involved in litigation proceedings. We are currently involved in various litigation proceedings, which could result in unfavorable decisions or financial penalties against us, and we will continue to be subject to future litigation proceedings, which could have material adverse consequences to our business. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings, some of which have been pending for several years. Some of these claims may be resolved against us. Our financial condition or results from operations could be adversely affected in a material way if certain of these material claims are resolved against us. See Note 29 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 19 Table of Contents The values of our subsidiaries’ long-term energy supply contracts are subject to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities. We have economic exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of certain commodities as a result of the long-term energy sales contracts we have entered into. Our subsidiaries have material obligations under long-term fixed-price electricity sales contracts, the values of which fluctuate with the market price of electricity. In addition, we have material obligations as selling parties under long-term energy supply contracts with prices that vary in accordance with the market price of electricity, which, in turn, depends on water levels in reservoirs, the market prices of commodities such as natural gas, oil, coal and other energy-related products, as well as the dollar exchange rate. Changes in the market price of these commodities and in the dollar exchange rate do not always correlate with changes in the market price of electricity or with our cost of production of electricity. Accordingly, there may be times when the price paid to us under these contracts is less than our cost of production or acquisition of electricity. We do not carry out transactions in commodity derivative instruments to manage our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. Under Chilean GAAP, our income statement does not reflect fluctuations in the fair value of our long-term energy contracts, although we are required to do so under U.S. GAAP. For further discussion, please refer to “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Commodity Price Risk.” Our controlling shareholders may have conflicts of interest relating to our business. ENEL S.p.A. (“Enel”) holds majority control of ENDESA, S.A. (“Endesa Spain”) share capital; Enel and Acciona jointly held 92.06% of Endesa Spain, which currently owns 60.6% of Enersis’ share capital, and Enersis beneficially owns 60% of Endesa Chile’s outstanding capital stock (Enel, Endesa Spain and Enersis, collectively the “Controllers”). The Controllers have the power to determine the outcome of most material matters that require shareholder vote, such as the election of the majority of our board members and, subject to contractual and legal restrictions, the distribution of dividends. The Controllers also can exercise influence over our operations and business strategies. Our Controllers’ interests may in some cases differ from those of our other shareholders. The Controllers conduct their business in South America primarily through us and through entities not consolidated by us or in which we have no interest. Environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our costs of operations. Our operating subsidiaries are also subject to environmental regulations, which, among other things, require us to perform environmental impact studies for future projects and obtain permits from both local and national regulators. Approval of these environmental impact studies may be withheld by governmental authorities. In addition, public opposition may cause delays or modifications to any proposed project and laws or regulations may change or be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect our operations or our plans for companies in which we hold investments. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview —Electricity Industry Regulatory Framework.” The Argentine natural gas crisis has increased the vulnerability of the electricity sector in Chile. In Argentina, the low price imposed by regulators on natural gas has directly affected production and investment in natural gas fields, which has impacted the short and medium-term availability of natural gas, both in Chile and in Argentina. The low price has also induced Argentine customers to increase their demand. A natural gas shortage has forced electricity generation companies, including ours, to use more expensive fuel oil, thus substantially increasing production costs. Energy demand in Chile’s central region decreased by 0.9% in 2008 but it is expected to increase in the long term. Increasing demand, combined with a low level of mid-term investment in the electricity sector, particularly exposes the Chilean electricity sector to the adverse effects of the Argentine natural gas crisis. Since 2004, Chile has been affected by increasing restrictions in the supply of natural gas from Argentina despite the existence of long-term contracts. Our combined cycle plant, San Isidro, and both units in Taltal operate with natural gas and diesel oil. Our related company, GasAtacama, also operates with natural gas and diesel oil. Each company has gas contracts with Argentine suppliers and has been affected adversely by restrictions of natural gas from Argentina. The materiality of the impact in the future will depend on the level of natural gas restrictions, the contractual commitments of each company, and the availability of alternative sources such as LNG. Currently a 9.6 million m3/d (2.5 mtpa) LNG regasification terminal is being developed in Chile and is expected by its promoters to start operations during the second half of 2009; however, no assurances can be given as to when the LNG plant will come on line, the level of 20 Table of Contents its actual production, or whether it will have a material positive effect our operating costs. One of the promoters of this project is Endesa Chile. For additional information, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company — A History and Development of the Company — Investments, Capital Expenditures and Divestitures.” The relative illiquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets could affect the price of our ADSs and common stock adversely. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be affected materially by developments in other emerging markets. The low liquidity of the Chilean market may impair the ability of holders of ADSs to sell shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADS program into the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time they wish to do so. We have outstanding credit facilities with “change of control” provisions which could result in some acceleration rights on such indebtedness. Approximately 26% of the amount outstanding in our consolidated debt obligations has “change of control” contractual provisions. As of December 31, 2008, $ 1,145 million of Endesa Chile’s consolidated indebtedness had some kind of “change of control” provision either in the form of a negative covenant, a mandatory prepayment or otherwise. However, $ 378 million in Endesa Chile’s subsidiaries’ contracts either (a) require a preliminary merger or spin-off prior to triggering such change of control provision, or (b) the change of control does not apply to Endesa Spain but to the other companies instead. A total of $ 766 million Endesa Chile’s consolidated indebtedness has “change of control” provisions which specifically refer to Endesa Spain, directly or indirectly, as the controlling entity. Approximately $ 450 million of Endesa Chile debt are to be found in revolving credit facilities governed by the laws of the State of New York. Lenders on such facilities, on an individual basis, have rights to accelerate payment if Endesa Spain is no longer, directly or indirectly, in the chain of control, provided that the new controlling entity does not satisfy certain minimum risk rating standards, which vary among the different debt facilities. If a tender offer for Endesa Spain is successful, and if a change of control were to take place, we cannot give assurances that our lenders would waive any acceleration rights that they might otherwise have under such credit agreements. For more detailed information on Endesa Chile contractual provisions, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Lawsuits against us brought outside of Chile or complaints against us based on foreign legal concepts may be unsuccessful. All of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of their assets are located outside the United States as well. If any shareholder were to bring a lawsuit against our directors, officers or experts in the United States, it may be difficult for them to effect service of legal process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them, in United States courts or Chilean courts, judgments obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to whether an action could be brought successfully in Chile on the basis of liability based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Our business is dependent on the Chilean economy and our revenues are sensitive to its performance. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in Chile and, accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are to a certain extent dependent upon economic conditions prevailing in Chile. In 2008, the Chilean economy grew by 3.2% compared to a 5.1% increase in 2007. The latest Chilean Central Bank estimate for growth in 2009, however, is in the -0.75 — 0.25% range. There is no assurance that such growth will be achieved, that the growth trend will continue in the future, or that future developments in the Chilean economy will not impair our ability to proceed with our strategic plans or adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our financial condition and results from operations could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations could also be 21 Table of Contents affected by other political or economic developments in Chile, a well as regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities, over which we have no control. Item 