RISK FACTORS” SECTION OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, AND IN OTHER REPORTS FILED BY US FROM TIME TO TIME WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION. WE ARE NOT OBLIGATED TO UPDATE ANY SUCH FACTORS OR TO REFLECT THE IMPACT OF ACTUAL FUTURE EVENTS OR DEVELOPMENTS ON SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THROUGHOUT THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, THE WORDS “COMPANY”, “WE”, “OUR” AND “US” REFER TO INNKEEPERS USA TRUST AND ITS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED OR THE CONTEXT OTHERWISE REQUIRES. PART I Item 1. Business (a) General Innkeepers USA Trust (“Innkeepers”) is a self-administered real estate investment trust (“REIT”). At December 31, 2006, Innkeepers owned 75 hotels with an aggregate of 9,904 rooms/suites through its partnership interests in Innkeepers USA Limited Partnership (with its subsidiary partnerships, the “Partnership”), and a 49% interest in one hotel with 355 rooms in an unconsolidated entity. The Company has a series of indirect, wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries that lease the hotels from the Partnership (the “TRSs”, and collectively with Innkeepers and the Partnership, the “Company”). Innkeepers Hospitality Management Inc. (the “IH Manager”) manages 71 of the hotels, an entity in which the IH Manager owns a minority interest manages two of the hotels, and a third party unaffiliated with the Company or the IH Manager manages one of the hotels. Two hotels, comprising a total of 393 rooms, are closed for substantial renovation and re-branding, and upon re-opening, will be managed by the IH Manager. The Company’s primary focus is acquiring or developing premium-branded upscale extended-stay, mid-priced limited service, and select-service hotels, the core of the Company’s portfolio; selected all-suite, or full-service hotels; and turn-around opportunities for hotels that operate under or can be converted to the industry’s leading brands. Fifty of the Company’s hotels are in the upscale extended-stay market and operate under brands such as Residence Inn by Marriott, Homewood Suites by Hilton or Summerfield Suites by Hyatt. Upscale extended-stay hotels typically have the following characteristics: (i) their principal customer base is business travelers who are on assignment for executive training and consulting, project assignment and corporate 1 Table of Contents relocations; (ii) their services and amenities include complimentary breakfast and evening hospitality hour, high speed internet access, limited meeting space, daily linen and room cleaning service, 24-hour front desk, guest grocery services, and an on-site maintenance staff; and (iii) their physical facilities include large suites, quality construction, full separate kitchens in each guest suite, quality room furnishings, pool, and exercise facilities. Our mid-priced hotels operate under brands such as Hampton Inn and TownePlace Suites, which offer services and amenities such as complimentary breakfast, high-speed internet access, local calls, an in-room movie channel, and daily linen and room cleaning service. Our full service hotels offer services and amenities such as full service restaurants, lounges, room service, meeting rooms, banquet and catering services, as well as providing high-speed internet access, local calls, an in-room movie channel, and daily linen and room cleaning service. The following charts set forth certain information with respect to our 75 wholly-owned hotels at December 31, 2006: Industry Classification and Franchise Affiliation Number ofHotels Number ofRooms/Suites Percentage ofRooms/Suites Upscale Extended-Stay Residence Inn by Marriott 44 5,437 54.8 % Summerfield Suites 5 650 6.6 % Homewood Suites by Hilton 1 146 1.5 % Sunrise Suites (1) 1 96 1.0 % 51 6,329 63.9 % Upscale Doubletree Guest Suites 1 105 1.1 % Four Points by Sheraton 1 216 2.2 % Courtyard by Marriott (2) 3 529 5.3 % Westin (3) 1 224 2.3 % Hilton 1 309 3.1 % Hilton Suites (3) 1 230 2.3 % Sheraton 1 155 1.6 % Bulfinch—Boston, MA 1 80 0.8 % 10 1,848 18.7 % Mid-Price Hampton Inn 12 1,497 15.0 % TownePlace Suites 1 95 1.0 % Best Western 1 135 1.4 % 14 1,727 17.4 % 75 9,904 100.0 % (1) The Sunrise Suites hotel is operated independent of any franchise as of March 1, 2007, the Bulfinch hotel is operated independent of any franchise. (2) Includes two hotels (with a total of 393 rooms) closed for renovation and conversion to the Courtyard by Marriott brand. (3) This is a full-service upper-upscale hotel. 2 Table of Contents State Number ofHotels Number ofRooms/Suites Percentage ofRooms/Suites California 14 2,445 24.7 % New Jersey 7 1,099 11.1 Florida 6 815 8.2 Texas 5 690 7.0 Michigan 6 596 6.0 Illinois 4 560 5.7 Washington 4 504 5.1 Maryland 4 548 5.5 Kentucky 3 349 3.5 Pennsylvania 3 325 3.3 New York 3 318 3.2 Virginia 3 305 3.1 Colorado 2 284 2.9 Georgia 2 280 2.8 Connecticut 2 192 1.9 Massachusetts 2 179 1.8 Washington, D.C. 1 105 1.1 Indiana 1 88 0.9 Ohio 1 80 0.8 Maine 1 78 0.8 Kansas 1 64 0.6 75 9,904 100.0 % 2003-2004 Restructuring Transactions From January 1, 2003 through November 30, 2003, 60 of our hotels were leased to Innkeepers Hospitality, Inc. or its affiliates (collectively, the “IH Lessee”) under separate percentage leases (collectively, the “Percentage Leases”) providing for rent equal to (a) a fixed base amount or, (b) if greater, percentage rent based on the room revenues of the hotel. A hotel acquired in June 2003 was leased by the Company to a TRS, and the TRS engaged the IH Manager to manage the hotel. As of December 1, 2003, wholly-owned TRSs of the Company acquired from the IH Lessee the Percentage Leases for 23 hotels, and simultaneously entered into management agreements with the IH Manager to manage those 23 hotels. The IH Lessee continued to lease and manage 37 hotels under Percentage Leases for the remainder of 2003. Between December 31, 2003 and March 1, 2004, TRSs acquired the Percentage Leases on the remaining 37 hotels leased by the IH Lessee, and the TRSs entered into management agreements with the IH Manager to manage those hotels as those Percentage Leases were acquired. We refer to this transaction as the “TRS Transaction”. Jeffrey H. Fisher, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees, owned the IH Lessee and owns the IH Manager. In 2003-2004, the IH Lessee (1) converted the agreements under which 17 hotels were franchised and managed by affiliates of Marriott International, Inc. (“Marriott”) into long-term franchise agreements with Marriott and (2) became the manager of the hotels. The TRSs subsequently assumed the IH Lessee’s obligations under those franchise agreements. Under those agreements, the TRSs pay Marriott (1) a franchise royalty fee of 6.5% of room revenues for ten years and a 5% royalty thereafter and (2) $850,000 plus 50% of aggregate available cash flow (as defined in the agreement with Marriott) in excess of a specified threshold each year for 10 years, beginning in 2004. We refer to this transaction as the “Marriott Takeback Transaction.” (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments The Company is in the business of acquiring equity interests in hotels. The Company manages its hotel investments individually and in the aggregate as one segment. 3 Table of Contents (c) Narrative Description of Business General. The Company is a self-administered Maryland real estate investment trust, which owned 75 Hotels with 9,904 rooms and a 49% interest in a 355-room hotel in an unconsolidated entity at December 31, 2006. Innkeepers had 36 employees at December 31, 2006. Internal Growth Strategy. The Company seeks to maximize revenue and profit at its hotels through: (i) aggressive asset management, which includes insuring that its hotel managers maximize the franchise brands’ marketing programs, developing timely sales management policies and plans, developing operational initiatives for the hotels that increase guest satisfaction, maximizing property management efficiencies, controlling cost, and (ii) continuing reinvestment in the hotels. Property Operations—The IH Manager. The Company believes that the quality of the on-site hotel operators is important to the future growth in revenue from the hotels. The IH Manager generally is required to perform or provide for all operational and management functions necessary to operate the hotels. The IH manager uses both a centralized and decentralized approach. Hotel-level personnel handle front desk operations, housekeeping, direct sales and marketing, and preventive maintenance and repairs. The IH Manager handles on a centralized basis functions such as financial reporting, accounting and payroll, human resources, revenue management, purchasing and risk management. Sales and Revenue Management. The IH Manager utilizes regional sales management oversight to coordinate, direct and manage the sales activities of personnel located at each hotel. Each property has a detailed annual marketing plan as well as regularly updated action plans that outline the strategy relative to corporate accounts, market segments, group revenue and special event goals. The IH Manager employs directors of sales and dedicated sales associates at the hotels to lead local sales efforts. The regional directors serve as a liaison to national corporate customers as well as the franchise brands’ national sales representatives, to maximize revenue and to minimize potential customer loss to competitors. The regional directors are responsible for overseeing the development and execution of targeted action plans as well as recruiting and developing “Best of Class” sales representation. The IH manager employs a corporate revenue management team to provide tools that assist in increasing revenue efficiency. The revenue management team offers leadership, guidance and expertise through daily calls to support the hotels’ planning and execution of fundamental revenue management principles. This includes pricing relative to market demand and competitive pricing; assisting in the establishment of corporate account rates and group pricing; yield management tactics; and turndown and market share analysis. Additionally, this team ensures that each property maximizes the franchise brands’ reservation system contribution capabilities. Capital Improvements, Renovation and Refurbishment. The Company intends to maintain its hotels in a condition that complies with their respective franchise licenses, among other requirements. In addition, the Company may upgrade hotels in order to capitalize on opportunities to increase revenue, and as needed to meet competitive conditions and preserve asset quality. The Company may also renovate or expand hotels when it believes the investment in renovations will provide an attractive return to the Company through increased revenue or is otherwise in the best interests of the Company. The Company spent approximately $28.6 million, $17 million and $25 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, for furniture, fixtures and equipment and certain other capital expenditures at the hotels owned during these periods. These amounts exclude acquisition, development, and conversion costs. The Company expects to spend approximately $36 million, excluding acquisition, conversion and development costs, for such purposes in 2007. The Company spent $18.5 million on conversion and development projects under construction during 2006 and expects to spend approximately $28 million in 2007 on these projects. Franchise Agreements. The Company seeks to affiliate its hotels with premier franchise companies and brands that offer robust marketing support and services and that have demonstrated their ability to command 4 Table of Contents revenue premiums over other brands. The Company’s hotels operate under the Residence Inn by Marriott, Summerfield Suites, Homewood Suites by Hilton, Doubletree Guest Suites, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, Courtyard by Marriott, Hilton, Hilton Suites, Sheraton, Hampton Inn, TownPlace Suites and Best Western brands. The franchise licenses for our hotels are held by our TRSs. The franchise agreements require the payment of fees based on a percentage of hotel room revenue. The franchisors periodically inspect their licensed hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The results of these inspections can result in additional capital expenditure requirements, or additional operational, marketing or repairs and maintenance expenses. The Company or its subsidiaries have guaranteed certain obligations of the TRSs under the franchise licenses. Acquisition and Development Strategy. The Company’s primary focus is acquiring or developing premium-branded upscale extended-stay, mid-priced limited service and select-service hotels, the core of the company’s portfolio; selected full-service or all-suite hotels; and turn-around opportunities for hotels that operate under or can be converted to the industry’s leading brands. Target Markets. The Company generally focuses on markets that have high barriers to entry relative to other markets and is currently emphasizing markets that include northern New Jersey, southern California, and the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. The Company’s preferred markets are generally characterized by scarcity or high cost of available land, extensive permit approval requirements, restrictive zoning, stringent local development laws, a relatively long lead time required to develop and relatively higher costs associated with such development. In addition, the Company seeks out submarkets within favorable regions that have multiple fast-growing demand generators, such as major office or manufacturing complexes, airports, major colleges and universities and medical centers with convenient access to major thoroughfares. The Company currently has hotels in 21 states and Washington, D.C. Target Customer. Most of the Company’s existing hotels are generally focused on the business customer. It is the Company’s intent to continue to acquire hotels that cater principally to business travelers, but the Company also is seeking to selectively acquire hotels that target families and leisure travelers. Acquisitions. The Company focuses on acquiring upscale extended-stay hotels, such as Residence Inn by Marriott, Homewood Suites by Hilton and Hyatt Summerfield Suites, because of their strong performance. This performance has resulted primarily from (i) the prevailing social and economic forces that increase the demand for these hotels, including the increasing tendency of businesses to conduct on- and off-site training for employees, corporate out-sourcing and the use of consultants, and the general increased mobility of the United States workforce, and (ii) the ability to generate a more consistent revenue stream than traditional hotels due to higher average occupancies and longer average stays. Upscale extended-stay hotels also require less staff and have lower fixed costs than full-service hotels and are designed and operated in a way that typically has resulted in higher operating margin percentages than most full-service hotels. Fifty one of our hotels are upscale extended-stay hotels. In 2006, the Company acquired two Residence Inn hotels with a total of 392 rooms, as part of an acquisition of a total of four hotels with 931 rooms for approximately $216.1 million. The Company also has traditionally focused on premium branded mid-priced and select service hotels, such as Hampton Inn and Courtyard by Marriott hotels, in order to diversify the portfolio with respect to locations and customer offerings. These hotels generally have operating characteristics including relatively low staffing and focused amenities that should result in favorable operating margin percentages, which are further benefited by our alignment with the premium mid-priced and select service hotel brands. In 2005, the Company acquired one 83-room Hampton Inn hotel for $10 million (including closing costs and expected capital expenditures) and one 190 room hotel for $18 million that will be re-opened in as a Courtyard by Marriott in May 2007 following a $14 million conversion project. The Company also acquired in 2005 an 80 room select service hotel for approximately $19.6 million. Due to its location in downtown Boston, MA and high level of finish, the Company has determined that aligning this hotel with a hotel brand would not generate incremental profit and therefore as of March 1, 2007 this hotel will be operated independently of a brand. 5 Table of Contents The Company has determined to selectively seek to acquire full-service hotels as well, where they can be acquired for opportunistic prices and in our target markets with strong growth fundamentals and relatively high barriers to entry. The Company expects that due to higher average daily rates and the relatively high occupancy rates experienced in the markets where we would seek to acquire full-service hotels, these hotels will favorably impact the Company’s gross margins, though they will have generally higher fixed costs, generally lower operating margin percentages and longer ramp up periods than our upscale extended-stay, mid-priced or select service hotels. In May 2004, the Company acquired the 216 room Four Points by Sheraton hotel in Ft Walton Beach, FL for approximately $30 million. In 2005, the Company acquired for $35.1 million the newly renovated 224-room Westin Governor Morris hotel in Morristown, NJ. In 2006, the Company acquired one 309 room Hilton hotel and one 230-suite Hilton Suites hotel, as part of an acquisition of four hotels with a total of 931 rooms for approximately $216.1 million. Also in 2006, the Company acquired for $23.5 million a new 155-room Sheraton hotel in Rockville, MD, and acquired for $4.3 million a 49% interest in a joint venture owning an existing 355-room Sheraton hotel in Raleigh, NC. Acquisition of Under-Performing hotels. We also periodically seek to acquire under-performing mid-priced and full-service hotels that have the potential for strategic repositioning in the market or re-flagging to a premium franchise brand in the upscale segment, or that can benefit from substantial renovation. Generally, hotels that meet the Company’s investment criteria include (i) poorly managed hotels that have the potential for increased performance following the introduction of a quality management team, (ii) hotels in a deteriorated physical condition that could benefit significantly from renovation, and/or (iii) hotels in attractive locations that the Company believes could benefit significantly by changing franchises to a brand the Company believes is superior, such as Hampton Inn or Courtyard by Marriott. In June 2004, the Company acquired for $6.4 million an existing 173-room hotel in Louisville, KY. The Company closed the hotel in October 2004 for renovations to convert the hotel to a Hampton Inn, which opened in August 2005. In June 2003, the Company acquired for $8.6 million an existing 203-room hotel in Atlantic City, NJ. The Company closed the hotel to begin an $18 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott and is expected to open in July 2007. In January 2005, the Company acquired for $18 million an existing 190-room hotel in Montvale, NJ. The Company closed the hotel to begin a $14 million renovation to convert the hotel to a Courtyard by Marriott and is expected to open in May 2007. Development. The Company also reviews other development opportunities for hotels that are consistent with its target market, product and brand strategies. The Company currently focuses on developing (1) upscale extended-stay hotels, such as Residence Inn by Marriott and Homewood Suites by Hilton hotels, (2) select service hotels such as Hampton Inn, Hampton Inn & Suites, Courtyard by Marriott or Aloft hotels and (3) all-suite hotels, such as Embassy Suites hotels. The Company intends to only pursue selective development of hotels that meet its underwriting requirements (i) when the Company believes that projected incremental returns adequately compensate for the costs and any incremental risk assumed by the Company, (ii) when the Company believes that a hotel developed by the Company will create or increase synergies with other Company-owned hotels in the area that will enhance the performance of all of those hotels or (iii) in order to maintain control of a site determined to have superior hotel potential. In September 2004, the Company acquired a land site in Valencia, CA for $3.7 million to develop a 157-suite Embassy Suites hotel for a total cost of approximately $22 million, which is expected to open in the second or third quarter of 2007. The Company is pursuing several other development opportunities in its target markets that are currently in the planning and entitlement phase, and expects to acquire land and begin construction on some of these opportunities in late 2007 or early 2008. Hotel Disposition Strategy. The Company disposes of certain hotels when it believes (i) a superior return can be generated because of rapid price appreciation or re-development opportunities, and the proceeds can be redeployed to generate more income; (ii) the operating performance of the hotel has been maximized and it can sell on a favorable basis, (iii) the operating performance of a hotel is declining and will continue to decline due to new competitors opening in the market or the loss of demand generators, (iv) the franchise affiliation of the hotel no longer is complementary to the Company’s long-term strategic initiatives or (v) the cost of franchisor requirements for the hotel becomes unattractive in light of the performance and prospects for the hotel. During 2005, the Company sold three hotels for total proceeds of $21.3 million. During 2006, the Company sold excess land in Binghamton, NY for $425,000 and recognized a gain on the sale of assets of $75,000. Available Information. The Company’s Internet website is www.innkeepersusa.com. The Company makes available free of charge through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to those reports filed or 6 Table of Contents furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the Company’s website includes corporate governance information, including the charters for committees of the Board of Trustees, the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Company’s Code of Conduct. This information is available in print to any shareholder who requests it by writing to Investor Relations, Innkeepers USA Trust, 340 Royal Poinciana Way, Suite 306, Palm Beach, FL 33480. The information on the Company’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings that we make with the SEC. Each year we are required to submit an annual written certification (Section 303A) to the New York Stock Exchange regarding certain corporate governance and compliance issues. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company filed this written certification noting no qualifications. In addition, we have filed, as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the certifications of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer required under Sections 906 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to be filed with the SEC regarding the quality of our public disclosure. Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company is subject to significant risks, including those that we disclose in reports filed from time to time with the SEC. See “Risk Factors” beginning on page R-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 