Risk Factors” beginning on page 8. Other factors might also contribute to the differences between our forward-looking statements and our actual results. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or the reasons why our actual results might differ. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers, their positions and their ages as of December 31, 2009 are as follows: Dr. Hans Georg Betz, 63, has been our Chief Executive Officer since August 2005 and has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2004. Between August 2005 and December 2009, Mr. Betz also served as our President. From August 2001 until he became our Chief Executive Officer and President, Dr. Betz served as Chief Executive Officer of West Steag Partners GmbH, a German-based venture capital company focused on the high-technology industry. In his over 30-year career in the electronics industry, Dr. Betz also has served as Chief Executive Officer of STEAG Electronic Systems AG and a Managing Director at Leybold AG. Dr. Betz currently serves as a director of Mattson Technology, Inc., a publicly held supplier of advanced process equipment used to manufacture semiconductors, and serves as a member of its compensation committee. Yuval Wasserman, 55, joined Advanced Energy in August 2007 as Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Services. In April 2009, Mr. Wasserman was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and in January 2010 he was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer. Immediately prior to joining Advanced Energy, from May 2002 to August 2007 Mr. Wasserman served as the President and CEO of Tevet Process Control Technologies, Inc., where he led the development and growth of the company. Prior to that, he held senior executive and general management positions at Boxer Cross (a metrology company acquired by Applied Materials, Inc.), Fusion Systems (a plasma strip company that is a division of Axcelis Technologies, Inc.), and AG Associates (a semiconductor capital equipment company focused on rapid thermal processing). Mr. Wasserman started his career at National Semiconductor, where he held various process engineering and management positions. Lawrence D. Firestone, 51, joined Advanced Energy in August 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From July 1999 to August 2006, Mr. Firestone was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Applied Films Corporation, a thin-film deposition equipment provider based in Longmont, Colorado. Prior to joining Applied Films, Mr. Firestone served as Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Avalanche Industries, an electronics manufacturing services company. Earlier, he held finance and operations positions at Woolson Spice and Coffee Company, TechniStar Corporation and Colorado Manufacturing Technology, Inc. in addition to performing consulting work for several early-stage technology companies. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Raw material, part, component and subassembly shortages, exacerbated by our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, could affect our ability to manufacture products and systems and could delay our shipments. Our business depends on our ability to manufacture products that meet the rapidly changing demands of our customers. Our ability to manufacture our products timely depends in part on the timely delivery of raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies from 8 Table of Contents suppliers. We rely on sole and limited source suppliers for some of our raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies that are critical to the manufacturing of our products. This reliance involves several risks, including the following: • inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts, components or subassemblies; • supply shortages, if a sole or limited source provider ceases operations; • the need to fund the operating losses of a sole or limited source provider; • reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of raw materials and parts, components or subassemblies; • need to qualify alternative suppliers which could be time consuming and lead to delays in, or prevention of delivery of products to our customers, as well as increased costs; and • inability of our suppliers to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new products. If we are unable to qualify additional suppliers and manage relationships with our existing and future suppliers successfully, if our suppliers experience financial difficulties including bankruptcy or if our suppliers cannot meet our performance or quality specifications or timing requirements, we may experience shortages, delays or increased costs of raw materials, parts, components or subassemblies. This in turn could limit or prevent our ability to manufacture and ship our products, which could materially and adversely affect our relationships with our current and prospective customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our sole or limited source suppliers have given us notice that they are ending supply of critical parts, components and subassemblies that are required for us to deliver product. In those cases, we have been required to make last time buys of such supplies in advance of product demand from our customers. If we cannot qualify alternative suppliers before these end-of life supplies are utilized in our products, we may be unable to deliver further product to our customers. To mitigate the risk of not having a supply of critical parts, components and subassemblies for our products, we have pro-actively made additional purchases which we believe addresses such risk. Our orders of raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies are based upon quarterly demand forecasts. We place orders with many of our suppliers based upon our customers’ quarterly forecasts. These forecasts are based upon our customers’ expectations as to demand for our products. As the quarter progresses, such demand can change rapidly or we may realize that our customers’ expectations were overly optimistic, especially during a downturn in the industry and other adverse economic conditions. These orders cannot always be amended in response. In addition, in order to assure availability of certain components or to obtain priority pricing, we have entered into contracts with some of our suppliers that require us to purchase a specified amount of components and subassemblies each quarter, even if we are not able to use such components or subassemblies. Moreover, we have obligations to some of our customers to hold a minimum amount of finished goods in inventory, in order to fulfill just in time orders, regardless of whether the customers expect to place such orders. We currently have firm purchase commitments and agreements with various suppliers to ensure the availability of components. Our obligation to our suppliers at December 31, 2009 under these purchase commitments was $32.7 million. In 2009, we negotiated reductions in the purchase commitments with some of our suppliers to address the severe decline in our need for such raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies. As the markets we serve recover from the economic downturn, particularly the semiconductor capital equipment market, we may be unable to successfully procure parts quickly enough to meet customer demand for our products, which can have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. Our business depends on the expansion of manufacturing capacity in our end markets and the installation base for the products we sell. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weakening global economy are contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate. These slowdowns could worsen if the current economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. Our markets depend largely on consumer spending and economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing equipment orders. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in a reduction of our sales and greater instances of nonpayment. These conditions may similarly affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products. Further, these conditions and 9 Table of Contents uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results and evaluate the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed and based in part on expectations of future net sales. If a sudden decrease in demand for our products from one or more customers were to occur, the inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any shortfall would magnify the adverse impact of a shortfall in net sales on our results of operations. The industries in which we compete are volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries, we are subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect our orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income. In addition, we may not be able to respond adequately or quickly to the declining demand by reducing our costs. We may be required to record significant reserves for excess and obsolete inventory as demand for our products changes. To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the industries we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage our supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. During periods of increasing demand, we must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage our supply chain; and attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Reduced product demand in the semiconductor equipment industry has a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business is affected by the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn is affected by the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products using integrated circuits. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. Business conditions historically have changed rapidly and unpredictably. Fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers could continue to materially affect our revenues and operating results. Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. Even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may have a temporary adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. An increasing portion of our business is in the emerging solar market, which, in addition to the general industry changes described above in the risk factor “The industries in which we compete are volatile and unpredictable,” is also characterized by ongoing changes particular to the solar industry. Our business is subject to changes in technology or demand for solar products arising from, among other things, adoption of our products by our customers’, compatibility of our technology with our customers’ products, customers’ and end-users’ access to affordable financial capital, the cost and performance of solar technology compared to other energy sources, the adequacy of or changes in government energy policies, including the availability and amount of government incentives for solar power, and the extent of investment or participation in solar by utilities or other companies that generate, transmit or distribute power to end users. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from these ongoing changes occurring in the solar industry, we may miss out on substantial opportunities for revenue and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We might make substantial capital expenditures and commitments to meet anticipated demand for our solar inverters. We have invested and will continue to invest significant human and financial resources in the development, marketing and sale of our Solaron® solar inverters. To increase our manufacturing capacity for our Solaron® solar inverters in order to meet anticipated demand, we have purchased equipment, leased new facilities and made other capital expenditures and commitments. These additional 10 Table of Contents expenditures and commitments have increased, and may continue to increase our overhead expenses during a time when our operations are not fully absorbing current overhead expenses. The impact could lower gross margins until such time that revenue related to sale of Solarons® can fully absorb overhead expenses. We have transferred and continue to transfer the production of substantially all of our product lines to our manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, China, and may experience unforeseen difficulties and challenges with these operations. We have invested and will continue to invest significant human and financial resources to utilize our manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, China. These investments, such as the transition of legacy product lines, are made with the goal of reducing our overall global production costs by increasing our workforce in China and correspondingly decreasing our workforce in the United States. We cannot always predict with certainty the impact that these transitions will have on our operating results. We may incur unforeseen costs with respect to this facility, product transitions and the related workforce mix changes that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties over which we have little or no control and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid reductions in revenues. A significant portion of our operations outside the United States are located in China, which exposes us to risks, such as exchange controls and currency restrictions, changes in local economic conditions, changes in Chinese laws and regulations, possible expropriation or other Chinese government actions, and unsettled political conditions. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the People’s Republic of China economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The People’s Republic of China government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall People’s Republic of China economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. We transitioned a significant amount of our supply base to Asian suppliers. We transitioned the purchasing of a substantial portion of components for our products, and continue to consider transitioning additional purchasing, to Asian suppliers to lower our materials costs and shipping expenses. These components might require us to incur higher than anticipated testing or repairing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Customers who have strict and extensive qualification requirements might not accept our products if these lower-cost components do not meet their requirements. A delay or refusal by our customers to accept such products, as well as an inability of our suppliers to meet our purchasing requirements, might require us to purchase higher-priced components from our existing suppliers or might cause us to lose sales to these customers, either of which could lead to decreased revenue and gross margins and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in tax rules, tax liabilities, or utilization of our deferred tax assets could materially affect our results. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In 2008 and 2009, there were adverse changes in the business climate and in the markets in which we operate and as a result we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $40.3 million. In the second half of 2009, we reconfigured our legal entity structure to realign our Chinese manufacturing operations with the intellectual property utilized in such manufacturing. On December 31, 2009, we transferred the economic rights to our patents and know-how from other affiliates throughout the world, including the parent company. As a result of this realignment, we generated $84.4 million of taxable income in the United States and Japan and, thus, reversed a portion of our valuation allowance and will utilize previously reserved deferred tax assets upon filing of our 2009 tax return. In general, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates and reserves against deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions are reasonable, including those relied upon in the execution of our entity restructuring, there can be no 11 Table of Contents assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our current or historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our sales and accounts receivable are concentrated among a few customers. Our ten largest customers accounted for 47% of our sales in 2009, 50% of our sales in 2008, and 61% of our sales in 2007. Applied Materials Inc., our largest customer, accounted for 20% of our sales in 2009, 21% of our sales in 2008, and 29% of our sales in 2007. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our sales during 2009, 2008 or 2007. If we were to lose any of our significant customers or suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Market pressures may reduce or eliminate our profitability. Our customers continually exert pressure on us to reduce our prices and extend payment terms. Given the nature of our customer base and the highly competitive markets in which we compete, we may be required to reduce our prices or extend payment terms to remain competitive. We may not be able to reduce our expenses in an amount sufficient to offset potential margin declines. We generally have no long-term contracts with our customers requiring them to purchase any specified quantities from us. Our sales are primarily made on a purchase order basis, and we generally have no long-term purchase commitments from our customers, which is typical in the industries we serve. As a result, we are limited in our ability to predict the level of future sales or commitments from our current customers, which may diminish our ability to allocate labor, materials and equipment in the manufacturing process effectively. In addition, we may accumulate inventory in anticipation of sales that do not materialize, resulting in excess and obsolete inventory write-offs. If we are unable to adjust our business strategy successfully for some of our product lines to reflect the increasing price sensitivity on the part of our customers, our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our business strategy for many of our product lines has been focused on product performance and technology innovation to provide enhanced efficiencies and productivity. As a result of recent economic conditions and changes in various markets that we serve, our customers have experienced significant cost pressures and, as a result, we have observed increased price sensitivity on the part of our customers. If competition against any of our product lines should come to focus solely on price rather than on product performance and technology innovation, we will need to adjust our business strategy and product offerings accordingly and, if we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We face substantial competition, primarily from established companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do. We expect our competitors will continue to develop new products in direct competition with ours, improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. To remain competitive, we must improve and expand our products and product offerings. In addition, we may need to maintain a high level of investment in research and development and expand our sales and marketing efforts, particularly outside of the United States. We might not be able to make the technological advances and investments necessary to remain competitive. If we were unable to improve and expand our products and product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our competitive position could be weakened if we are unable to convince end users to specify that our products be used in the equipment sold by our customers. The end users in our markets may direct equipment manufacturers to use a specified supplier’s product in their equipment at a particular facility. This occurs with frequency because our products are critical in manufacturing process control for thin-film applications. Our success therefore, depends in part on our ability to have end users specify that our products be used at their facilities. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in changing established relationships of competitors that already have a large installed base of products within such facilities. 12 Table of Contents Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to damage or warranty claims. Our products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay damages or warranty claims and suffer significant harm to our reputation. We accrue a warranty reserve for estimated costs to provide warranty services, including the cost of technical support, product repairs, and product replacement for units that cannot be repaired. Our estimate of costs to fulfill our warranty obligations is based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions. To the extent we experience increased warranty claim activity or increased costs associated with servicing those claims, our warranty accrual will increase, resulting in decreased gross profit. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers, although design wins achieved do not necessarily result in substantial sales. The constantly changing nature of technology in the markets we serve causes equipment manufacturers to continually design new systems. We must work with these manufacturers early in their design cycles to modify our equipment or design new equipment to meet the requirements of their new systems. Manufacturers typically choose one or two vendors to provide the components for use with the early system shipments. Selection as one of these vendors is called a design win. It is critical that we achieve these design wins in order to retain existing customers and to obtain new customers. We believe that equipment manufacturers often select their suppliers based on factors including long-term relationships and end user demand. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from equipment manufacturers who are not currently our customers. In addition, we must compete for design wins for new systems and products of our existing customers, including those with whom we have had long-term relationships. Our efforts to achieve design wins are time consuming and expensive, and may not be successful. If we are not successful in achieving design wins, or if we do achieve design win but our customers’ systems that utilize our products are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Once a manufacturer chooses a component for use in a particular product, it is likely to retain that component for the life of that product. Our sales and growth could experience material and prolonged adverse effects if we fail to achieve design wins. However, design wins do not always result in substantial sales, as sales of our products are dependent upon our customers’ sales of their products. We are subject to risks inherent in international operations. Sales to our customers outside the United States were approximately 57% of our total sales in 2009, 58% in 2008, and 46% in 2007. Our success competing in international markets is subject to our ability to manage various risks and difficulties, including, but not limited to: • our ability to effectively manage our employees at remote locations who are operating in different business environments from the United States; • our ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses; • compliance with product safety requirements and standards that are different from those of the United States; • variations and changes in laws applicable to our operations in different jurisdictions, including enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; • trade restrictions, political instability, disruptions in financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions; • customs regulations and the import and export of goods; • the ability to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; • our ability to obtain business licenses that may be needed in international locations to support expanded operations; • timely collecting accounts receivable from foreign customers; and • changes in tariffs, taxes and foreign currency exchange rates. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to implement our business strategies, maintain market share and compete successfully in international markets will be compromised if we are unable to manage these and other international risks successfully. We are subject to risks related to holding financial instruments in foreign countries. A majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities have historically been held in accounts in Japan and Germany. During the second quarter of 2009, we transferred to accounts in the United States approximately $46.2 million in cash from Japan. We are, however, still holding $46.8 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in Germany. Repatriation of such cash is subject to limitations and may be subject to significant taxation. We cannot be certain that we will be able to repatriate such cash on favorable terms or in a timely manner. If we incur losses in our operations and need the cash held in these international accounts, but are unable to repatriate such cash in a timely manner, we may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise or from executing some of our business plans, either of which could cause our business, financial condition or results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations may lead to lower operating margins, or may cause us to raise prices, which could result in reduced sales. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and we could experience losses with respect to forward exchange contracts into which we may enter. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, most sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold and the currency they receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. From time to time, we enter into forward exchange contracts and local currency purchased options to reduce currency exposure arising from intercompany sales of inventory. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the value of the Chinese yuan could impact the cost of our operation in Shenzhen, China. The Chinese government is continually pressured by its trading partners to allow its currency to float in a manner similar to other major currencies. Any change in the value of the Chinese yuan may impact our ability to control the cost of our products in the world market. Specifically, the decision by the Chinese government to allow the yuan to begin to float against the United States dollar could significantly increase the labor and other costs incurred in the operation of our Shenzhen facility and the cost of raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies that we source in China, thereby having a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our intellectual property. Our success depends significantly on our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents and non-disclosure agreements; however, we might not be able to protect our technology, and competitors might be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries might not afford our intellectual property the same protections as do the laws of the United States. Our intellectual property is not protected by patents in several countries in which we do business, and we have limited patent protection in other countries, including China. The cost of applying for patents in foreign countries and translating the applications into foreign languages requires us to select carefully the inventions for which we apply for patent protection and the countries in which we seek such protection. Generally, our efforts to obtain international patents have been concentrated in the European Union and certain industrialized countries in Asia, including Korea, Japan and Taiwan. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. China commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to the commercial law in the United States. Limited protection of intellectual property is available under Chinese law. Consequently, manufacturing our products in China may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our products or otherwise obtain or use our intellectual property. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights effectively or have adequate legal recourse in the event that we encounter infringements of our intellectual property in China. 14 Table of Contents We have been, and in the future may again be, involved in litigation. Litigation is costly and could result in further restrictions on our ability to conduct business or an inability to prevent others from using technology or make use of market relationships we have developed. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our commercial or property rights, to defend ourselves against claimed violations of such rights, or to protect our interests in regulatory disputes or similar matters. Litigation often requires substantial management time and attention, as well as financial and other resources, including: • substantial costs in the form of legal fees, fines and royalty payments; • restrictions on our ability to sell certain products or in certain markets; • an inability to prevent others from using technology we have developed; and • a need to redesign products or seek alternative marketing strategies. Any of these events could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Funds associated with auction rate securities that we have traditionally held as short-term investments may not be liquid or readily available. Our investment securities include auction rate securities (“ARS”) that are not available to convert to cash until June 30, 2010. In November 2008, we executed a non-transferrable auction rate securities rights agreement (the “Put Agreement”) with a financial institution that provides us with the ability to sell certain of our ARS to a financial institution, at our sole discretion, and obligates the financial institution to purchase such ARS, at par during the period of June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. Our ARS holdings to which the Put Agreement relates have a cost basis of approximately $21.7 million and a fair value of approximately $18.2 million at December 31, 2009. $19.7 million of the par value of ARS are in student loan securities and the remaining $2.0 million are in municipal securities. Additionally, the Put Agreement had a fair value of $3.2 million at December 31, 2009. The benefits of the Put Agreement are subject to the continued performance by the financial institution of its obligations under the Put Agreement. We will not be able to utilize the Put Agreement to liquidate our ARS before June 30, 2010. Pursuant to the Put Agreement, as of June 2, 2009, we entered into a Credit Line Agreement with UBS Bank. The Credit Line Agreement provides us with an uncommitted, demand revolving line of credit (an intended “no net cost loan”) of approximately $16.3 million that is secured by our ARS. The lack of liquidity associated with these investments may require us to borrow against the no net cost loan or repatriate cash from international locations at a significant cost. In light of current economic conditions and other factors, we cannot be certain that we will be able to borrow against these securities or continue to repatriate cash, on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to do so, our available cash may be reduced until some or all of our ARS can be liquidated. The lack of available cash may prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise and may prevent us from executing some of our business plans, either of which could cause our business, financial condition or results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. Our intangible assets may become impaired. We currently have $6.0 million in intangible assets. We periodically review the estimated useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets, taking into consideration any events or circumstances that might result in either a diminished fair value or revised useful life. The events and circumstances include significant changes in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators and competition. Any impairment or revised useful life could have a material and adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and could harm the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including environmental regulations and regulations relating to the design and operation of our products and control systems. We might incur significant costs as we seek to ensure that our products meet safety and emissions standards, many of which vary across the states and countries in which our products are used. In the past, we have invested significant resources to redesign our products to comply with these directives. Compliance with future regulations, directives and standards could require us to modify or redesign some products, make capital expenditures or incur substantial costs. If we do not comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards: 15 Table of Contents • we could be subject to fines; • our production or shipments could be suspended; and • we could be prohibited from offering particular products in specified markets. If we were unable to comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate for reasons over which we have no control. The stock market has from time to time experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Prices of securities of technology companies have been especially volatile and have often fluctuated for reasons that are unrelated to their operating performance. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our Chairman of the Board owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, which could enable him to influence our business and affairs, and future sales of our common stock by our Chairman of the Board may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Douglas S. Schatz, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock as of February 23, 2010. This stockholding gives Mr. Schatz significant voting power and influence. Depending on the number of shares that abstain or otherwise are not voted on a particular matter, Mr. Schatz may be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors and to influence our business affairs for the foreseeable future in a manner with which our other stockholders may not agree. In addition, the sale of a substantial amount of the shares beneficially owned by him could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The trust through which Mr. Schatz beneficially owns a significant number of shares has entered into a written trading plan pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which, as of November 3, 2009, provided for the sale of up to 1,636,364 shares of common stock if certain price targets and other conditions are met. On May 8, 2009, the trust entered into a series of variable prepaid forward contracts with a securities broker, in order to monetize 1,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company. Upon fulfillment of each of 6 orders under the variable prepaid forward contracts, the trust received a cash payment equal to approximately 84% of the market value of the shares subject to such orders and pledged such shares to the securities broker. Pending settlement of such contracts, between May 11, 2010 and December 13, 2010, the trust will retain all of its voting rights in respect of the pledged shares. The loss of any of our key personnel could significantly harm our results of operations and competitive position. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our key management, technical, marketing and sales employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our key employees or that we can attract or retain additional skilled personnel as required. Many of the stock options held by our employees have exercise prices that are higher than the current trading price of our common stock, and these “underwater” options do not serve their purpose as incentives for our employees to remain with the Company. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could significantly harm our results of operations and competitive position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 