Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. The following are certain risk factors that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors and others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. If our business, financial position and results of operations are adversely affected by any of these or other adverse events, our stock price would also likely be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We face significant competition in the wireless communications distribution industry. The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented, and is comprised of several national distributors, as well as numerous regional distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell and fulfill directly to customers. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessory market, and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. Some of our current competitors, particularly certain manufacturers, have substantially greater capital resources and sales and distribution capabilities than we do. In response to competitive pressures from any of our current or future competitors, we may be required to lower selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share, and such measures could adversely affect our operating results. The loss of key customers or affinity partners will have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Most of our agreements with affinity partners are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice. Customers typically do not have an obligation to make purchases from us. In the event a significant customer decides to make its purchases from another source, experiences a significant change in demand internally or from its own customer base, becomes financially unstable, or is acquired by another company, our ability to generate revenues from these customers may be significantly affected, resulting in an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The loss of key vendors or suppliers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with our vendors or suppliers. If our vendors or suppliers refuse to, or for any reason are unable to supply products to us, and if we are not able to procure those products from alternative sources, we may not be able to maintain appropriate inventory levels and meet customer demand, and our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Consolidation among wireless service carriers could result in the loss of significant customers. The wireless service carrier industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. If any of our significant customers or partners are acquired or consolidate with others carriers, or are otherwise involved in any significant transaction that results in them ceasing to do business with us, or significantly reducing the level of business that 11 they do with us, our revenues from those customers could be significantly affected, possibly resulting in an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The failure of our information systems or inability to upgrade them could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon our internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate our business. There can be no assurance that our information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve our information systems, that we will be able to convert to new systems efficiently, or that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs. Any of such problems, or any significant damage or destruction of these systems, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We depend heavily on e-commerce, and website security breaches or Internet disruptions could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We rely on the Internet (including TESSCO.com® and other affinity websites) for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. There can be no assurances that our website will not experience any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information or placing orders. This could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The telecommunications products marketplace is dynamic and challenging because of the continued introduction of new products and services. We must constantly introduce new products, services and product features to meet competitive pressures. We may be unable to timely change our existing merchandise sales mix in order to meet these competitive pressures, which may result in increased inventory costs or loss of market share. Additionally, our inventory may also lose value due to price changes made by our significant vendors, in cases where our arrangements with these vendors do not provide for inventory price protection, or in cases that the vendor is unable or unwilling to provide these protections. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and to ship products to customers. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. This could adversely impact our selling, general and administrative expenses or lead to price increases to our customers which could decrease customer demand for our products. We intend to explore additional growth through acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to pursue the acquisition of companies that either complement or expand our existing business. As a result, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, which may be material in size and scope. In addition to those risks to which our business and the acquired businesses are generally subject to, the acquisition of these businesses gives rise to transactional and transitional risks, and the risk that the anticipated benefits will not be realized. 12 We offer credit to our customers and, therefore, are subject to significant credit risk. We sell our products to a large and diverse customer base. We finance a significant portion of such sales through trade credit, typically by providing 30-day payment terms. As a result, our business could be adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of our customers, resulting in the customers’ inability to repay us. This risk may increase if there is a general economic downturn affecting a large number of our customers and in the event our customers do not adequately manage their business or properly disclose their financial condition. We require substantial capital to operate, and the inability to obtain financing on favorable terms will adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that are not financed by trade creditors. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations, revolving credit facilities and trade credit from our vendors to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on competitive terms to fund our working capital needs. Our credit facilities and long-term debt arrangements are of specified terms and contain various financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow or limit our flexibility in responding to business conditions. Our currently existing $30 million revolving credit facility expires in September 2007, and although we expect to either extend or replace this facility, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. The inability to maintain or when necessary obtain adequate sources of financing could have an adverse affect on our business. Some of our existing financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposing us to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We have and may also in the future use interest rate swaps in an effort to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. We utilize these derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. However, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in interest rates. The inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business includes (but is not limited to) a high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, information technology and business generation personnel are critical to our business. While our success depends upon the skills of many of our personnel, we are particularly dependent upon the skills and leadership of Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our chairman, president and chief executive officer. The loss of any of these individuals, and particularly Mr. Barnhill, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as Performance Stock Units (PSUs). If performance targets associated with these PSUs are not met, or the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we spend on cash and other forms of compensation. Our ability to issue PSUs is also limited by the provisions of and our available shares in our current and/or future stock incentive plans, which may be subject to shareholder approval. Changes in accounting rules could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant affect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before a change is announced. 13 In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” a revision of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and superseding Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” SFAS No. 123R is a complex accounting standard that requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards and was adopted by us on March 27, 2006. The adoption of the SFAS No. 123R could have an impact on our reported results of operations. SFAS No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current financial accounting standards. This requirement may reduce our net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows. Furthermore, the application of SFAS No. 123R requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding stock price volatility, option forfeiture rates and expected option lives, to build a model for appropriately valuing share-based compensation. There is little experience or guidance with respect to developing these assumptions and models. There is also uncertainty as to how SFAS No. 123R will be interpreted and applied as companies and their advisors gain more experience with the standard. There is a risk that, as we and others gain experience with SFAS No. 123R or as a result of subsequent accounting guidelines, we could determine that the assumptions or model we used requires modification. Any such modification could result in significantly different charges in future periods and, potentially, could require us to correct the charges taken in prior periods. Any such corrections of charges taken in a prior period could negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility. We may be subject to litigation. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages or, other adverse affects. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on business, financial position and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. The damage or destruction of either of our principal facilities could materially adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. If our Global Logistics Center in Hunt Valley, Maryland or our Americas Sales & Logistic Center in Reno, Nevada were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of product inventory and our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course would be materially and adversely affected. On October 12, 2002, a significant portion of our Global Logistics Center in Hunt Valley, Maryland was damaged as a result of a water main break occurring on an adjacent property. This event resulted in a temporary suspension of our operations and required a substantial commitment of funds and effort over time to rebuild this facility. Since that time, our Americas Sales & Logistic Center in Reno, Nevada has become fully operational. Nevertheless, another temporary or protracted loss of either facility could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage against damage to our property and equipment, and additional coverage for business interruption and extra expenses. If we have underestimated our insurance needs, we will not have sufficient insurance to cover losses above and beyond the limits on our policies. We may be unable to successfully execute our merchandising and marketing strategic initiatives. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts and initiatives to maximize sales. If we fail to successfully execute these initiatives, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on trademark filings and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. In an effort to protect our intellectual property, including our product data, customer information and information technology systems, through trademark filings and nondisclosure, confidentiality and trade secret agreements, we typically require our employees, consultants and others having access to this information or our technology to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. A breach of confidentiality could adversely affect our business. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the 14 rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants and others have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our proprietary information or trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Others may obtain patent protection for technologies that are important to our business, and as a result, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In response to patents of others, we may need to license the rights to use the technology patented by others, or in the event that a license cannot be obtained, design our systems around the patents of others. There can be no assurances as to our ability to obtain any such licenses or to design around the patents of others, and our inability to do so could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK It may be difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, which could affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms, and limitations on the removal of directors other than for cause, and then only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless Board of Director or shareholder approval were obtained. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. A significant portion of our voting stock is controlled by our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned over 50% of our outstanding common stock as of March 26, 2006. Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our chairman, president and chief executive officer beneficially owned approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of March 26, 2006. Should these shareholders decide to act together, they would have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and any significant corporate transaction requiring shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 