Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. The following are certain risk factors that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors and others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. If our business, financial position and results of operations are adversely affected by any of these or other adverse events, our stock price would also likely be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We face significant competition in the wireless communications distribution industry. The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented, and is comprised of several national distributors, as well as numerous regional distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell and fulfill directly to customers. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessory market, and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. Some of our current competitors have substantially greater capital resources and sales and distribution capabilities than we do. In response to competitive pressures from any of our current or future competitors, we may be required to lower selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share, and such measures could adversely affect our operating results. We typically purchase and sell our products and services on the basis of individual sales or purchase orders, and even in those cases where we have standing agreements or arrangements with our customers and vendors, those agreements and arrangements typically contain no purchase or sale obligations and are otherwise terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice. Our sales to customers and our purchases from vendors are largely governed by individual sales or purchase orders, so there is no guarantee of future business. In some cases, we have formal agreements or arrangements with significant customers or vendors, but they are largely administrative in nature and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice, and they typically contain no purchase or sale obligations. If our vendors or suppliers refuse to, or for any reason are unable to supply products to us, and if we are not able to procure those products from alternative sources, we may not be able to maintain appropriate inventory levels to meet customer demand and our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Similarly, if customers decide to make purchases from other sources, experience significant changes in demand internally or from their own customer bases, become financially unstable, or are acquired by another company, our ability to generate revenues from these customers may be significantly affected, resulting in an adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. -12- Table of Contents The loss or any change in the business habits of key customers or vendors, including the recent loss of our AT&T third party logistics retail supply chain relationship, may have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. Because our standing arrangements and agreements with our customers and vendors typically contain no purchase or sale obligations and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice, we are subject to significant risks associated with the loss or change at any time in the business habits and financial condition of key customers or vendors. In fiscal year 2013, sales to our largest customer relationship, AT&T Mobility, accounted for approximately 30% of total revenues. The transition of our 3PL retail store supply chain business with AT&T was completed in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2013, and revenues from this business have therefore terminated. In January 2011, we reported that AT&T was assessing cost reduction business model changes that could affect our supply chain relationship with them. In July 2011, AT&T agreed to purchase a larger portion of its device accessory purchases from us in exchange for a lower per unit cost. Accordingly, beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we experienced significant increases in shipments and revenues, with an accompanying decrease in associated gross profit percentage. In April 2012, AT&T informed us that they intended to begin to transition their 3PL retail store supply chain business from us in the second quarter of our fiscal 2013. As of our fiscal 2013 year end, this business was fully transitioned. The transition and termination of this relationship and loss of the associated revenues will most likely result in a reduction in our overall revenues in fiscal 2014. However, this business carried a lower margin than does our continuing non-AT&T business, and as a result the impact on gross profit, while still significant, is not expected to be as significant on a relative basis. Separately, we see potential to increase gross profit in our non-AT&T business. If we are successful in increasing gross profit in our non-AT&T business, and in controlling expenses, we believe that we will be able to offset at least some of the loss in profits from transition of the AT&T relationship. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be successful in these efforts or that our financial position and results of operations will not suffer. Sales of products purchased from our largest vendor, Otter Products, LLC (Otter) generated approximately 9% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013. Much of this concentration, however, is attributable to our 3PL retail store supply chain business for AT&T, which as described above fully transitioned from TESSCO to a third party logistics provider as of yearend fiscal 2013. The terms of our current business relationship with Otter had been set to expire in March 2013 and as such, we engaged in discussions with them regarding revised terms of our relationship. Effective January 2013, Otter and TESSCO agreed on new terms for our business relationship, which continues for sales outside of the AT&T retail store supply chain relationship. We have experienced the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships in the past and expect to do so in the future. It is the nature of the business. Over the past decade, however, we have generally been successful in replacing significant customer and vendor relationships when lost. However, the loss of customer relationships like AT&T, and the corresponding reduction in the volume of product sales identified to those relationships, can affect our negotiating ability with vendors supplying those products. This can affect our margins in sales of those products to other customers. If we are unable to replace those products at favorable pricing and terms, or if we are unable to offer those products to our customers at all, our competitiveness may suffer and result in reduced revenues and profits. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in replacing any of our current or future relationships if and when lost, or in the event of a substantial reduction in revenues from any such relationship. -13- Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued tendency of wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators to outsource aspects of their business to us in the future. We provide functions such as distribution, inventory management, fulfillment, customized packaging, e-commerce solutions, and other outsourced services for many wireless manufacturers and network operators. Certain wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators have elected, and others may elect, to undertake these services internally. Additionally, our customer service levels, industry consolidation, competition, deregulation, technological changes or other developments could reduce the degree to which members of the global wireless industry rely on outsourced logistic services such as the services we provide. Any significant change in the market for our outsourced services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our outsourced services are generally provided under short-term contractual arrangements. The failure to obtain renewals or otherwise maintain these agreements on terms, including price, consistent with our current terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We require substantial capital to operate, and the inability to obtain financing on favorable terms will adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that are not financed by trade creditors. We have historically relied upon cash generated from operations, revolving credit facilities and trade credit from our vendors to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on competitive terms to fund our working capital needs. Our credit facilities and long-term debt arrangements are of specified terms and contain various financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow or limit our flexibility in responding to business conditions. While we generally expect to either extend or replace our credit facilities at term expirations, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. The inability to maintain or when necessary obtain adequate sources of financing could have an adverse affect on our business. Our current revolving credit facility expires in May 2014. Some of our existing financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposing us to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may in the future use interest rate swaps in an effort to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. We would utilize these derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. However, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in interest rates. Our ability to borrow funds under our credit agreement could be constrained by the level of eligible receivables and inventory. Our borrowing availability under our existing revolving credit facility is limited to certain amounts of eligible accounts receivable and inventory. If the value of eligible accounts receivable and inventory were to decrease significantly, the amount available for borrowing under the facility could decrease. The fiscal year 2013 transition of our AT&T business has not had a significant impact on our overall inventory and accounts receivable balances, which are currently used in the calculation of the borrowing base under our existing revolving credit facility. As of the end of fiscal 2013, our asset balance continues to support the full amount available under our current facility and our earnings have kept us in compliance with all current debt covenants. -14- Table of Contents The ongoing weakness in the global economic environment may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that could result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and stock price. Notwithstanding the slow economic recovery in the U.S., the ongoing weakness in the global economic environment – which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, significant decreases in consumer confidence and consumer and business spending, high rates of unemployment and concerns that the worldwide economy may continue to experience significant challenges – may materially adversely affect our customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which to pay for our products. In addition, our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity may continue to be affected, which may in turn adversely impact their ability to maintain inventories, production levels, and/or product quality, or cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operation. The potential effects of the weakness in the global economic environment are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period may be more difficult to predict. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and could adversely affect our stock price. We may be unable to successfully execute our merchandising and marketing strategic initiatives. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts and initiatives to maximize sales. If we fail to successfully execute these initiatives, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The telecommunications products marketplace is dynamic and challenging because of the continued introduction of new products and services. We must constantly introduce new products, services and product features to meet competitive pressures. We may be unable to timely change our existing merchandise sales mix in order to meet these competitive pressures, which may result in increased inventory costs, inventory write-offs or loss of market share. Additionally, our inventory may also lose value due to price changes made by our significant vendors, in cases where our arrangements with these vendors do not provide for inventory price protection, or in cases that the vendor is unable or unwilling to provide these protections. Consolidation among wireless service carriers could result in the loss of significant customers. The wireless service carrier industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. If any of our significant customers or partners are acquired or consolidate with other carriers, or are otherwise involved in any significant transaction that results in them ceasing to do business with us, or significantly reducing the level of business that they do with us, our revenues from those customers could be significantly affected, possibly resulting in an adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. -15- The failure of our information systems or inability to upgrade them could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon our internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate our business. There can be no assurance that our information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve our information systems, that we will be able to convert to new systems efficiently as necessary, or that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs. Any of such problems, or any significant damage or destruction of these systems, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We depend heavily on e-commerce, and website security breaches or Internet disruptions could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We rely on the Internet (including TESSCO.com®) for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. There can be no assurances that our website will not experience any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information or placing orders. This could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business includes (but is not limited to) a high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, information technology and business generation personnel are critical to our business. We rely heavily upon our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals, particularly our President and the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the fall of 2012, our then Chief Financial Officer left the company. He has not yet been replaced and in the meantime his duties have been assumed by other officers. For example, Mr. Barnhill now performs the function of or similar to that of Principal Financial Officer, and Aric Spitulnik, our Controller, has assumed the role of Principal Accounting Officer. These additional responsibilities place additional demands on these individuals and as a result, they may be less effective in their overall performance. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as Performance Stock Units (PSUs). If performance targets associated with these PSUs are not met, or the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we spend on cash and other forms of compensation. Our ability to issue PSUs is also limited by the provisions of and our available shares under our current and/or future stock incentive plans, which may be subject to shareholder approval. As of the end of the year, there were 536,303 shares available for future awards under our incentive plans and we have no immediate plans to get shareholder approval for an increase in such number. -16- Table of Contents Also, in fiscal year 2012, in order to address possible concern regarding the number of equity awards that may be granted in a given year, the Board of Directors determined that it will not, absent stockholder approval indicating or permitting otherwise, make awards under the 1994 Plan over the following three fiscal year period (fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014) for a number of shares in excess of an average annual rate over the three year period equal to 5.84% of the weighted average number of shares of our common stock projected to be outstanding during each fiscal year. These items may limit our ability to grant certain performance based equity instruments and therefore may have an adverse effect on our continued ability to attract and retain, and motivate, our employees. The damage or destruction of any of our principal distribution or administrative facilities could materially adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. If any of our distribution centers in Hunt Valley, Maryland or Reno, Nevada, were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of product inventory and our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course could be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our office locations in Maryland, Nevada or Texas were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, our ability to conduct marketing, sales and other corporate activities in the ordinary course could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to manufacture products that we distribute and, accordingly, rely on their quality control procedures. Product manufacturers typically provide limited warranties directly to the end consumer or to us, which we generally pass through to our customers. If a product we distribute for a manufacturer has quality or performance problems, our ability to provide products to our customers could be disrupted, which could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to potential declines in inventory value. We are subject to the risk that the value of our inventory will decline as a result of price reductions by vendors or technological obsolescence. It is the policy of many of our vendors to protect distributors from the loss in value of inventory due to technological change or the vendors’ price reductions. Some vendors (including those who manufacture our proprietary products), however, may be unwilling or unable to pay us for price protection claims or products returned to them under purchase agreements. No assurance can be given that such practices to protect distributors will continue, that unforeseen new product developments will not adversely affect us, or that we will be able to successfully manage our existing and future inventories. Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of finished goods and bulk inventory to meet the demands of our customers. Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of inventory from our suppliers. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Furthermore, certain of our components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. -17- Table of Contents If our business does not perform well, or if we otherwise experience a decline in the fair values of a portion or all of our business, we may be required to recognize impairments of our intangible or other long-lived assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin, growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill and indefinite lived asset valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill and indefinite lived asset impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of March 31, 2013, we had $12.5 million of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, which represented approximately 6.5% of total assets. All goodwill and intangible assets have been allocated to the Commercial segment. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business, projections of future taxable income, and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our future results of operations may be impacted by the prolonged weakness in the current economic environment which may result in an impairment of any goodwill recorded and/or other long lived assets or the recording of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We primarily rely on trademark filings and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. In an effort to protect our intellectual property, including our product data, customer information and information technology systems, through trademark filings and nondisclosure, confidentiality and trade secret agreements, we typically require our employees, consultants and others having access to this information or our technology to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. A breach of confidentiality could adversely affect our business. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants and others have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our proprietary information or trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Others may obtain patent protection for technologies that are important to our business, and as a result, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In response to patents of others, we may need to license the rights to use the technology patented by others, or in the event that a license cannot be obtained, design our systems around the patents of others. There can be no assurances as to our ability to obtain any such licenses or to design around the patents of others, and our inability to do so could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. -18- Table of Contents We offer credit to our customers and, therefore, are subject to significant credit risk. We sell our products to a large and diverse customer base. We finance a significant portion of such sales through trade credit, typically by providing 30-day payment terms. As a result, our business could be adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of our customers, resulting in the customers’ inability to repay us. This risk may increase if there is a general economic downturn affecting a large number of our customers and in the event our customers do not adequately manage their business or properly disclose their financial condition. We intend to explore additional growth through acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to pursue the acquisition of companies that either complement or expand our existing business. As a result, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, which may be material in size and scope. In addition to those risks to which our business and the acquired businesses are generally subject to, the acquisition of these businesses gives rise to transactional and transitional risks, and the risk that the anticipated benefits will not be realized. Risks associated with the foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Since the onset of the weakness in the global economic environment in 2008, certain of our suppliers, particularly those in the far east, have experienced financial difficulties and we believe it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require increased prices in order to fulfill their obligations. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts, or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and to ship products to customers. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. This could adversely impact our selling, general and administrative expenses or lead to price increases to our customers which could decrease customer demand for our products. -19- Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions. Changes in income tax and other regulatory legislation. We operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and make plans for our structure and operations based upon existing laws and anticipated future changes in the law. When new legislation is enacted with minimal advance notice, or when new interpretations or applications of existing laws are made, we may need to implement changes in our policies or structure. We are susceptible to unanticipated changes in legislation, especially relating to income and other taxes, import/export laws, hazardous materials and other laws related to trade, accounting and business activities. Such changes in legislation may have a significant adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to litigation. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, intellectual property and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or other adverse affects. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. We may incur product liability claims which could be costly and could harm our reputation. The sale of our products involves risk of product liability claims against us. We have also been increasing the sales of TESSCO private labeled products and providing an increased level of support services, including product and network designs. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but our product liability insurance coverage is subject to various coverage exclusions and limits and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We do not know whether claims against us with respect to our products and services, if any, would be successfully defended or whether our insurance would be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such claims. Any claims successfully brought against us could adversely affect our financial condition, and if substantial and relating to our products or industry generally, could affect our business as a whole. -20- Table of Contents Our expanding offering of private labeled products may have a negative impact on our relationship with our manufacturer partners. Our product offering includes a growing number of our own proprietary products, which represented approximately 8% of our sales in fiscal 2013. Our proprietary products often compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. A manufacturer may choose to not sell its products to us, or may substantially increase the price of products to us, in response to the competition created by the sales of our proprietary branded products. Either could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others could harm our business and cause us to incur significant costs. Our industry has increasingly been subject to patent and other intellectual property rights litigation, particularly from special purpose entities that seek to monetize their intellectual property rights by asserting claims against others. We expect this trend to continue and accelerate and expect that we may be required to defend against this type of litigation, not only asserted against our own intellectual property rights, but also against the intellectual property of products which we have purchased for resale. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK A significant portion of our voting stock is controlled by our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2013. Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our chairman, president and chief executive officer beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2013. Should these shareholders decide to act together, they would have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and any significant corporate transaction requiring shareholder approval. Without approval of our Board of Directors, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. This could affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, certain arrangements to which we are party, and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) may each make it more difficult for or may prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include advance notice bylaws and limitations on the removal of directors other than for cause, and then only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the DGCL, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless Board of Director or shareholder approval were obtained. Some believe that the provisions described above, as well as any resulting delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors or management, could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. We, on the other hand, believe that these provisions serve to protect our shareholders against abusive takeover tactics, to preserve and maximize the value of the Company for all shareholders, and to better ensure that each shareholder will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire the Company. -21- Table of Contents Potential uncertainty resulting from unsolicited acquisition proposals and related matters may adversely affect our business. In the past we have received, and in the future we may receive, unsolicited proposals to acquire our company or our assets. For example, in September 2010, the Board of Directors received an unsolicited non-binding proposal from Discovery Group for the acquisition of all of our stock not then owned by Discovery Group. At the time, Discovery owned approximately 14% of the Company’s then outstanding common stock. The review and consideration of acquisition proposals and related matters could require the expenditure of significant management time and personnel resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainty for our employees, customers and vendors. Any such uncertainty could make it more difficult for us to retain key employees and hire new talent, and could cause our customers and vendors to not enter into new arrangements with us or to terminate existing arrangements. Additionally, we and members of our board of directors could be subject to future lawsuits related to unsolicited proposals to acquire us. Any such future lawsuits could become time consuming and expensive. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior fiscal period or investors’ expectations. Most of our operating expenses, such as compensation expenses, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. -22- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 