Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. The following are certain risk factors that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors and others described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. If our business, financial position and results of operations are adversely affected by any of these or other adverse events, our stock price would also likely be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We face significant competition in the wireless communications distribution industry. The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented, and is comprised of several national distributors, as well as numerous regional distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell and fulfill directly to customers. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessory market, and the risk of new competitors entering the market is high. Some of our current competitors have substantially greater capital resources and sales and distribution capabilities than we do. In response to competitive pressures from any of our current or future competitors, we may be required to lower selling prices in order to maintain or increase market share, and such measures could adversely affect our operating results. The loss of key vendors or suppliers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with our vendors or suppliers. If our vendors or suppliers refuse to, or for any reason are unable to supply products to us, and if we are not able to procure those products from alternative sources, we may not be able to maintain appropriate inventory levels and meet customer demand, and our business, financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business depends on the continued tendency of wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators to outsource aspects of their business to us in the future. We provide functions such as distribution, inventory management, fulfillment, customized packaging, e-commerce solutions, and other outsourced services for many wireless manufacturers and network operators. Certain wireless equipment manufacturers and network operators have elected, and others may elect, to undertake these services internally. Additionally, our customer service levels, industry consolidation, competition, deregulation, technological changes or other developments could reduce the degree to which members of the global wireless industry rely on outsourced logistic services such as the services we provide. Any significant change in the market for our outsourced services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our outsourced services are generally provided under short-term contractual arrangements. The failure to obtain renewals or otherwise maintain these agreements on terms, including price, consistent with our current terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We require substantial capital to operate, and the inability to obtain financing on favorable terms will adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that are not financed by trade creditors. We have historically relied upon cash generated from 13 Table of Contents operations, revolving credit facilities and trade credit from our vendors to satisfy our capital needs and finance growth. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital, or capital may not be available to us on competitive terms to fund our working capital needs. Our credit facilities and long-term debt arrangements are of specified terms and contain various financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow or limit our flexibility in responding to business conditions. While we generally expect to either extend or replace our credit facilities at term expirations, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. The inability to maintain or when necessary obtain adequate sources of financing could have an adverse affect on our business. Our current revolving credit facility expires in May 2010. Some of our existing financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposing us to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We have and may also in the future use interest rate swaps in an effort to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. We utilize these derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. However, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in interest rates. The current global financial crisis may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that could result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and stock price. The current global financial crisis—which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, significant decreases in consumer confidence and consumer and business spending, rising unemployment and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period—may materially adversely affect our customers' access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity with which to pay for our products. In addition, the current global financial crisis may materially adversely affect our suppliers' access to capital and liquidity, which may in turn adversely impact their ability to maintain inventories, production levels, and/or product quality, or cause them to raise prices or lower production levels, or result in their ceasing operation. Further, with respect to our $50 million unsecured revolving credit facility discussed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, if the global financial crisis continues to adversely impact SunTrust Bank and/or Wachovia Bank, National Association, or if the global financial crisis should be prolonged and affect our ability to extend or replace this revolving credit facility upon expiration in May 2010, our access to borrowings, and accordingly our business, could be materially adversely affected. The potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period may be more difficult to predict. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. We may be unable to successfully execute our merchandising and marketing strategic initiatives. We are focusing our sales and marketing efforts and initiatives to maximize sales. If we fail to successfully execute these initiatives, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of key customers will have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Most of our agreements with significant customers are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise short notice. Customers typically do not have an obligation to make purchases 14 Table of Contents from us. In the event a significant customer decides to make its purchases from another source, experiences a significant change in demand internally or from its own customer base, becomes financially unstable, or is acquired by another company, our ability to generate revenues from these customers may be significantly affected, resulting in an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In fiscal year 2009, sales to our largest customer relationship, AT&T Mobility, a top tier cellular carrier purchasing phone accessories, accounted for approximately 22% of total revenues. The telecommunications products marketplace is dynamic and challenging because of the continued introduction of new products and services. We must constantly introduce new products, services and product features to meet competitive pressures. We may be unable to timely change our existing merchandise sales mix in order to meet these competitive pressures, which may result in increased inventory costs, inventory write-offs or loss of market share. Additionally, our inventory may also lose value due to price changes made by our significant vendors, in cases where our arrangements with these vendors do not provide for inventory price protection, or in cases that the vendor is unable or unwilling to provide these protections. Consolidation among wireless service carriers could result in the loss of significant customers. The wireless service carrier industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. If any of our significant customers or partners are acquired or consolidate with others carriers, or are otherwise involved in any significant transaction that results in them ceasing to do business with us, or significantly reducing the level of business that they do with us, our revenues from those customers could be significantly affected, possibly resulting in an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The failure of our information systems or inability to upgrade them could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon our internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate our business. There can be no assurance that our information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve our information systems, that we will be able to convert to new systems efficiently, or that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with our existing programs. Any of such problems, or any significant damage or destruction of these systems, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We depend heavily on e-commerce, and website security breaches or Internet disruptions could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We rely on the Internet (including TESSCO.com® and other affinity websites) for a significant percentage of our orders and information exchanges with our customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. There can be no assurances that our website will not experience any material breakdowns, disruptions or breaches in security. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, this could harm our relationship with our customers or suppliers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our customers and suppliers from accessing information or placing orders. This could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business includes (but is not limited to) a high volume of transactions, business complexity, wide geographical coverage, and broad scope of products, suppliers, and customers. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, information technology and business generation personnel are critical to our business. While our success depends upon the skills of many of our personnel, we are particularly dependent upon the skills and leadership of Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our chairman, president and chief executive officer. The loss of any of these individuals, and particularly Mr. Barnhill, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. To attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as Performance Stock Units (PSUs). If performance targets associated with these PSUs are not met, or the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we spend on cash and other forms of compensation. Our ability to issue PSUs is also limited by the provisions of and our available shares in our current and/or future stock incentive plans, which may be subject to shareholder approval. The damage or destruction of any of our principal distribution or administrative facilities could materially adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. If any of our distribution centers in Hunt Valley, Maryland or Reno, Nevada, were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of product inventory and our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course could be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, if our office locations in Hunt Valley, Maryland or San Antonio, Texas were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, our ability to conduct marketing, sales and other corporate activities in the ordinary course could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to manufacture products that we distribute and, accordingly, rely on their quality control procedures. Product manufacturers typically provide limited warranties directly to the end consumer or to us, which we generally pass through to our customers. If a product we distribute for a manufacturer has quality or performance problems, our ability to provide products to our customers could be disrupted, which could adversely affect our operations. If our business does not perform well, or if we otherwise experience decline in the fair values of a portion or all of our business, we may be required to recognize impairments of our intangible or other long-lived assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin, growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets prior 16 Table of Contents to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of March 29, 2009, we had $7.4 million of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, which represented approximately 6.2% of total assets. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the business, projections of future taxable income, and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our future results of operations may be impacted by the prolonged weakness in the current economic environment which may result in an impairment of any goodwill recorded and/or other long lived assets or the recording of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We rely on trademark filings and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. In an effort to protect our intellectual property, including our product data, customer information and information technology systems, through trademark filings and nondisclosure, confidentiality and trade secret agreements, we typically require our employees, consultants and others having access to this information or our technology to execute confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. A breach of confidentiality could adversely affect our business. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants and others have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our proprietary information or trade secrets could impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Others may obtain patent protection for technologies that are important to our business, and as a result, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In response to patents of others, we may need to license the rights to use the technology patented by others, or in the event that a license cannot be obtained, design our systems around the patents of others. There can be no assurances as to our ability to obtain any such licenses or to design around the patents of others, and our inability to do so could have an adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We offer credit to our customers and, therefore, are subject to significant credit risk. We sell our products to a large and diverse customer base. We finance a significant portion of such sales through trade credit, typically by providing 30-day payment terms. As a result, our business could be adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of our customers, resulting in the customers' inability to repay us. This risk may increase if there is a general economic downturn affecting a large number of our customers and in the event our customers do not adequately manage their business or properly disclose their financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We intend to explore additional growth through acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to pursue the acquisition of companies that either complement or expand our existing business. As a result, we regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, which may be material in size and scope. In addition to those risks to which our business and the acquired businesses are generally subject to, the acquisition of these businesses gives rise to transactional and transitional risks, and the risk that the anticipated benefits will not be realized. Risks associated with the foreign suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Since the onset of the global economic crisis in 2008, certain of our suppliers, particularly those in the far east, have experienced financial difficulties and we believe it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from us in order to fulfill their obligations. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts, or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and to ship products to customers. We rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, for the delivery of our products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. This could adversely impact our selling, general and administrative expenses or lead to price increases to our customers which could decrease customer demand for our products. Changes in accounting rules could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions. We may be subject to litigation. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or other adverse affects. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. We may incur product liability claims which could be costly and could harm our reputation. The sale of our products involves risk of product liability claims against us. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but our product liability insurance coverage is subject to various coverage exclusions and limits and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We 18 Table of Contents do not know whether claims against us with respect to our products, if any, would be successfully defended or whether our insurance would be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such claims. Any claims successfully brought against us could harm our business. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK A significant portion of our voting stock is controlled by our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock as of March 29, 2009. Robert B. Barnhill, Jr., our chairman, president and chief executive officer beneficially owned approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock as of March 29, 2009. Should these shareholders decide to act together, they would have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and any significant corporate transaction requiring shareholder approval. Without approval of our Board of Directors, it may be difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. This could affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, certain arrangements to which we are party, and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) may each make it more difficult for or may prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms, advance notice bylaws, and limitations on the removal of directors other than for cause, and then only upon the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, on February 1, 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which one preferred stock purchase right was distributed on each common share held of record as of the close of business on February 11, 2008. The rights become exercisable under certain circumstances following the announcement that any person has acquired 20% or more of our common stock, or the announcement that any person has commenced a tender offer for 20% of our common stock (in each case, with certain limited exceptions). Under specified conditions, each right (other than those held by the person or persons acquiring or making a tender offer for our stock, which rights become void under the rights plan) will entitle the holder to purchase, at the exercise price provided for under the plan, our common stock (or if we are acquired in a merger or other business combination, common stock of the acquirer) having a then current value of two times the exercise price. In addition, on February 1, 2008, our Board of Directors amended our bylaws to provide that a special meeting of stockholders must only be called upon a request in writing by the holders of stock of all classes representing at least 50% of the votes possessed by all classes then issued, outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the DGCL, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless Board of Director or shareholder approval were obtained. Some believe that the provisions described above, as well as any resulting delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors or management, could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. We, on the other hand, believe that these provisions serve to protect our shareholders against abusive takeover tactics, and to preserve and maximize the value of the Company for all shareholders, and better ensure that each shareholder will be treated fairly in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire the Company. 19 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior fiscal period or investors' expectations. Most of our operating expenses, such as compensation expense, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 