D. Risk Factors Forward Looking Statements This Report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions of future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “anticipates”, or “does not anticipate”, “plans”, “estimates” or “intends”, or stating that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might”, or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved) are not statements of historical facts and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, estimates and projections at the time the statements are made and include, but are not limited to, the statements under “Item 5-Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and located elsewhere herein regarding industry prospects and the Company’s financial position. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations are more fully disclosed herein. Important risks include the Company’s lack of cash flow and resultant need for additional funding, the risks associated with resource exploration and development, the fact that there are no proven reserves on the Company’s properties, risks associated with the property title, currency fluctuation, unstable metal prices, and various environment and political situations. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributed to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements. -5- Central Minera Form 20F December 2007 The Company's business is subject to a number of risk factors that are set forth below: The Company has no history of cash flow from operations and may require additional funds to conduct further exploration activities. Currently the Company has an indirect interest in one property through its ownership of 14.75% of the outstanding shares of Cactus Gold Corp. (“Cactus”). The property has not advanced to the commercial production stage. The Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations. Historically, the only source of funds available to the Company is through (i) the sale of its equity shares or (ii) borrowings. Even if the results of future exploration programs are encouraging, the Company may not have sufficient funds to conduct the further exploration that may be necessary to determine whether or not a commercial deposit exists on any of its properties. The development of any ore deposits, if found on the Cactus property, depends upon Cactus’s ability to obtain financing through joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that Cactus will be able to obtain the required financing. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis could cause Cactus to forfeit its interest in such properties, dilute its interests in the properties and/or reduce or terminate its operations. The Company has no other interests at this time. The resource exploration business is extremely speculative and subject to many factors beyond the Company’s control which may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. In addition, the marketability of minerals acquired or discovered may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and Cactus and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. There is no certainty that any expenditure made by the Company in the exploration of its indirect interest in the property will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercial ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of gold from ore reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a -6- Central Minera Form 20F December 2007 commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk as to which the Company does not have any insurance. The business of gold mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. The payment of such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. The Company does not have nor does it presently intend to obtain any insurance as to such hazards. Conflicts of interest may arise because one of the Company’s Directors is also a Director of other mineral resource companies. Mr. Michael Cytrynbaum, one of the Company’s Directors, serves as a Director of Callinan Mines Limited which is a resource exploration and/or development company. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, Mr. Cytrynbaum may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time, as a result of the Company engaging in transactions in which Directors and Officers of the Company may have an interest. Please refer to “Item 7 – Related Party Transactions.” From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs. Permitting involvement in a greater number of programs reduces the financial exposure in respect of any one program. It is also possible that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In the event that a conflict of interest arises, a Director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval any action by the Company with respect to the subject matter giving rise to the conflict of interest. In appropriate cases the Company will establish a special committee of independent Directors to review a matter in which several Directors, or management, may have a conflict. Moreover, in accordance with the laws of the Yukon Territories, the Directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interest of the Company. In determining whether the Company will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the Directors will primarily consider the potential benefits to the Company, the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. Other than as indicated, the Company has no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. As of the date hereof, the Company is not aware of the existence of any conflict of interest on the part of any Director or Officer as described herein. -7- Central Minera Form 20F December 2007 Currency fluctuations may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company maintains its accounts in United States dollars. The Company’s operations in Canada and United States make it subject to foreign currency fluctuations and such fluctuations may materially affect the Company’s financial position and results. At the present time the Company does not engage in hedging activities. The Company faces competition from larger companies that have greater financial and other resources than the Company. Significant competition exists for the limited number of gold acquisition opportunities available in the United States and Canada. As a result of this competition, some of which is from large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than the Company, the Company may be unable to acquire additional attractive gold mining properties on terms it considers acceptable. The Company currently has shares reserved for future issuance that when issued will cause an equity dilution to the current stockholders. The Company may enter into commitments in the future, which would require the issuance of additional Subordinate Voting shares and may grant additional stock options and warrants. Issuance of additional shares would be subject to certain regulatory approvals and compliance with applicable securities legislation. The Company has issued 3,000,000 Variable Multiple Voting Shares. On July 31, 2003 under the terms of an outstanding Convertible Debenture, the Company issued 3,000,000 Variable Multiple Voting shares. Directors and Officers of the Company hold or control 2,500,000 Variable Multiple Voting shares. Accordingly management will have effective control of the Company’s business affairs. Please refer to “Item 10. Additional Information” and “Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds”. 