ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business or that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements made by the Company. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superceded by updates to the risk factors contained in periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K that the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s substantial indebtedness could harm its ability to react to changes in business or market developments and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations under its indebtedness. As of December 30, 2006, the Company’s consolidated indebtedness outstanding was approximately $411.2 million and for fiscal 2006, its interest expense, net plus the interest costs capitalized amounted to $32.3 million. The Company’s substantial level of current indebtedness, as well as any additional indebtedness the Company may draw under the unused portions of the Credit Facility, combined with a potential downturn in business due to economic or other factors beyond its control, increases the possibility that the Company may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of its indebtedness. The Company’s substantial debt could increase its vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions by limiting its flexibility to plan for, or to react to, changes in its business and in the industry in which the Company operates. This limitation could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and more cash to insulate their operations from market downturns and to finance new business opportunities. The Company’s variable rate indebtedness subjects the Company to interest rate risk, which could cause its debt service obligations to increase significantly. In accordance with the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company has maintained a cash flow hedge to lessen its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. However, approximately 48% of the Company’s exposure to variable interest rates under the Credit Facility is not hedged and will bear interest at floating rates. As a result, a modest interest rate increase could result in a substantial increase in interest expense. To service its indebtedness and fund its capital expenditures the Company will require a significant amount of cash. The Company’s ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its operations and capital expenditures will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. However, its business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations for a variety of reasons, including general downturns in the economy, delays in the start-up of expansion projects, changes in the currency exchange rates in countries in which the Company operates, local laws restricting the movement of 13 cash between the Company’s subsidiaries and the parent and many other potential reasons. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash to service its debt, the Company will have to take such actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions may not be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the credit agreement with respect to the Credit Facility may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. Non-compliance with covenants contained in the Credit Facility, without waiver or amendment from the lenders of the Credit Facility, could adversely affect our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility. The Company’s Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants, including a leverage ratio and an interest expense coverage ratio. The Company may not be able to satisfy these ratios, especially if operating results fall below management’s expectations, which expectations are that the covenants would be met. A breach of any of these covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the Credit Facility, unless the Company is able to remedy any default within the allotted cure period or obtain the necessary waivers or amendments to the Credit Facility. In the event of any default not waived, and subject to appropriate cure periods as provided for in the Credit Agreement, the lenders under the Credit Facility could elect to not lend any additional amounts to the Company and could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to repay the borrowings with respect to the Credit Facility when due, the lenders could proceed against their collateral, which consists of (i) a lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company, its domestic subsidiaries and certain of its non-domestic subsidiaries, (ii) a pledge of all or a portion of the stock of the domestic subsidiaries of the Company and of certain non-domestic subsidiaries of the Company, and (iii) a pledge of certain secured intercompany notes. Because a significant number of its employees are represented by labor unions or trade councils and work under collective bargaining agreements, any employee slowdown or strikes or the failure to renew its collective bargaining agreements could disrupt the Company’s business. As of December 30, 2006, approximately 38% of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions or trade councils and work under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 25% of the Company’s labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire within one year. The Company may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with these labor unions or trade councils. The Company may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt the Company’s business. Any such disruption could in turn reduce its revenue from sales, increase its costs to bring products to market and result in significant losses. The Company generates most of its revenue from the sale of manufactured products that are used in a wide variety of consumer and industrial applications and the potential for product liability exposure could be significant. The Company manufactures a wide variety of products that are used in consumer and industrial applications, such as disposable diapers, baby wipes, surgical gowns, wound dressings, carpet backing and industrial packaging. As a result, the Company may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of its products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any of its products are, or are alleged to be, defective, the Company may be required to make warranty payments or to participate in a recall involving those products. 14 The future costs associated with defending product liability claims or responding to product warranties could be material and the Company may experience significant losses in the future as a result. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could substantially reduce the Company’s profitability and cash generated from operations. The Company’s international operations pose risks to its business that are not present with its domestic operations. The Company’s manufacturing facilities in the United States accounted for 46% of net sales for fiscal 2006, with facilities in Europe, Latin America, Canada and Asia accounting for 54%. As part of its growth strategy, the Company may expand operations in existing or other foreign countries. The Company’s foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in applicable laws, reduced protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions. All of these risks could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive and timely basis. This could reduce or impair the Company’s net sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. The Company has not historically hedged its exposure to foreign currency risk. The Company could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws, and violations of such laws may increase costs or require the Company to change certain business practices. The Company uses and generates a variety of chemicals in its manufacturing operations. As a result, the Company is subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. The Company regularly incurs costs to comply with environmental requirements, and such costs could increase significantly with changes in legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. For example, certain local governments have adopted ordinances prohibiting or restricting the use or disposal of certain plastic products, such as certain of the plastic wrapping materials, which are produced by the Company. Widespread adoption of such prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and thereby have a material effect upon the Company. In addition, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. The Company could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect the operations of the Company’s manufacturing facilities involved. The Company is also subject to laws, such as CERCLA, that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. If the Company is unable to adequately protect its intellectual property, the Company could lose a significant competitive advantage. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect its unique technologies and products against competitive pressure and to defend its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the Company’s market share and results of operations. The Company considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business 15 and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through United States and foreign patent and trademark registrations. The Company has over 185 trademarks worldwide, over 500 patents and pending patent applications worldwide and maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent protection. The Company may not receive patents for all its patent applications and existing or future patents that the Company receives or licenses may not provide competitive advantages for its products. Its competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights that the Company receives or licenses. In addition, patent rights may not prevent the Company’s competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to its products. The loss of protection for the Company’s intellectual property could reduce the market value of its products, reduce product sales, lower its profits, and impair its financial condition. Due to the unique products that the Company produces and the particular industry in which the Company operates, the loss of its senior management could disrupt its business. The Company’s senior management is important to the success of its business because there is significant competition for executive personnel with unique experience in the nonwoven and oriented polyolefin industries. As a result of this unique need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, the Company may not be able to retain its existing senior management. In addition, the Company may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional senior management personnel. The loss of any member of its senior management team without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside its existing management team) could restrict our ability to enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage the business effectively. Risks Related to the Company’s Industries Because the specialized markets in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive, the Company may have difficulty growing its business year after year. The markets for the Company’s products are highly competitive. The primary competitive factors include technical support, product innovation and performance, quality, service, distribution and cost. In addition, the Company competes against a small number of competitors in each of its markets. However, some of these competitors are much larger companies that have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing resources than the Company. As a result, a reduction in overall demand or increased costs to design and produce its products would likely further increase competition and that increased competition could cause the Company to reduce its prices, which could lower its profit margins and impair its ability to grow from year to year. The Company must continue to invest significant resources in developing innovative products in order to maintain a competitive edge in the highly specialized markets in which the Company operates. The Company’s continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to maintain its technological capabilities and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative products for the nonwoven and oriented polyolefin industries. The Company must also protect the intellectual property rights underlying its new products to realize the full benefits of its efforts. If the Company fails to continue to develop products for its markets or to keep pace with technological developments by its competitors, the Company may lose market share, which could reduce product sales, lower its profits and impair its financial condition. 16 The loss of only a few of the Company’s large volume customers could reduce its revenues and profits. A significant amount of the Company’s products are sold to a relatively small number of large volume customers. Sales to Procter & Gamble Company represented approximately 13% of its net sales in fiscal 2006. Sales to its top 20 customers represented approximately 51% of the Company’s net sales in fiscal 2006. As a result, a decrease in business from, or the loss of, any large volume customer such as Procter & Gamble could materially reduce the Company’s product sales, lower its profits and impair its financial condition. Increases in prices for raw materials or the unavailability of raw materials could reduce the Company’s profit margins. The primary raw materials used to manufacture most of the Company’s products are polypropylene resins, polyester fiber, polyethylene resin and, to a lesser extent, rayon, tissue paper and cotton. The prices of polypropylene, polyethylene and polyester are a function of, among other things, manufacturing capacity, demand and the price of crude oil and natural gas liquids. To the extent that the Company is able to pass at least a portion of raw material price increases to some of its customers, there is often a delay between the time the Company is required to pay the increased raw material price and the time the Company is able to pass the increase on to its customers. To the extent the Company is not able to pass along all or a portion of such increased prices of raw materials, the Company’s cost of goods sold would increase and its operating income would correspondingly decrease. By way of example, if the price of polypropylene were to rise $.01 per pound and the Company was not able to pass along any of such increase to its customers, the Company would realize a decrease of approximately $4.0 million on an annualized basis in its reported pre-tax operating income. There can be no assurance that the prices of polypropylene, polyethylene and polyester will not increase in the future or that the Company will be able to pass on any increases to its customers not covered by contracts with price escalation clauses. Material increases in raw material prices that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profit margins, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the loss of any of its key suppliers in the short-term could disrupt its business until the Company secures alternative supply arrangements or alternative suppliers were qualified with customers. In response to changing market conditions the Company may decide to restructure certain of its operations resulting in additional cash restructuring charges and asset impairment charges The Company reviews its business on an ongoing basis relative to current and expected market conditions, attempting to match its production capacity and cost structure to the demands of the markets in which it participates, and strives to continuously streamline its manufacturing operations consistent with world-class standards. Accordingly, in the future the Company may or may not decide to undertake certain restructuring efforts to improve its competitive position, especially in the more mature markets of the U.S., Europe and Canada. In such mature markets, the prices for commodity roll goods continue to fluctuate based on supply and demand dynamics relative to the assets employed in that geographic region. The Company actively and continuously pursues initiatives to prolong the useful life of its long-lived assets through product and process innovation. To the extent further decisions are made to improve the Company’s long-term performance, such actions could result in the incurrence of cash restructuring charges and asset impairment charges associated with the consolidation, and such charges could be material. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 