ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations or could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements made by us. Bondholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the future. Risks Related To Our Business Because the specialized markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive, we may have difficulty growing our business year after year and maintaining profit margins. The markets for our products are highly competitive. The primary competitive factors include product innovation and performance, quality, service, cost, distribution and technical support. In addition, we compete against a number of competitors in each of our markets. Some of these competitors are larger companies that have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. A reduction in overall demand, a significant increase in 11 Table of Contents manufacturing market capacity in excess of market demand or increased costs to design and produce our products would likely further increase competition and that increased competition could cause us to reduce our prices, which could lower our profit margins and impair our ability to grow from year to year. We must continue to invest significant resources in developing innovative products in order to maintain a competitive edge in the highly specialized markets in which we operate. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain our technological capabilities and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative products for the nonwoven and oriented polymer industries. We must also protect the intellectual property rights underlying our new products to realize the full benefits of our efforts. If we fail to continue to develop products for our markets or to keep pace with technological developments by our competitors, we may lose market share in the historically higher margin hygiene and medical markets, which could reduce product sales, lower our profits and impair our financial condition. The loss of any of our large volume customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. A significant amount of our products are sold to large volume customers. For example, our largest customer is Procter & Gamble, which represented 16% of our sales in 2011. Our 20 largest customers represented 57% of our sales for the same period, and included Cardinal Health, Clorox, Dow, Johnson & Johnson, Kimberly-Clark, Molnlycke, Procter & Gamble, SCA, and other global and regional manufacturers. As a result, a decrease in business from, or the loss of, any large volume customers could materially reduce our product sales, lower our profits and impair our financial condition. Increases in prices for raw materials and energy could reduce our profit margins. The primary raw materials used to manufacture most of our products are polypropylene resins, polyester fiber, polyethylene resin and, to a lesser extent, rayon and tissue paper. In addition, energy related costs are a significant expense for us. The prices of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, political unrest and instability in energy-producing nations, and supply and demand considerations. To the extent that we are able to pass along at least a portion of raw material price increases to some of our customers, there is often a delay between the time we are required to pay the increased raw material price and the time we are able to pass the increase on to our customers. To the extent we are not able to pass along all or a portion of such increased prices of raw materials, our cost of goods sold would increase and our operating income would correspondingly decrease. By way of example, as of December 31, 2011, if the price of polypropylene were to rise $0.01 per pound and we were not able to pass along any of such increase to our customers, we would realize a decrease of approximately $5.4 million, on an annualized basis, in our reported pre-tax operating income. There can be no assurance that the prices of raw materials and energy will not increase in the future or that we will be able to pass on any increases to our customers. Material increases in raw material and energy prices that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins, results of operations and financial condition. Delay in the procurement of raw materials could reduce our revenues and profits. In certain regions of the world, we may source certain key raw materials from a limited number of suppliers or on a sole source basis. In addition, to the extent that we cannot procure our raw material requirements from a local country supplier, we will import raw materials from outside refiners. The loss of certain of any of our key suppliers or the delay in the import of raw materials could, in the short-term, adversely affect our business until alternative supply arrangements are secured and the respective suppliers were qualified with our customers, or when importation delays of raw material are resolved. Accordingly, a delay in the procurement of raw materials could reduce product sales, lower our profits and impair our financial condition. Reductions in our selling prices to customers could reduce our profit margins. In cases where changes in our selling prices to customers are determined via contract based on changes in an underlying raw material price index, such as the index for polypropylene, and the index decreases, sales would decrease and our operating income would correspondingly decrease if we are not able to obtain corresponding reductions in our raw material costs, which decreases in operating income could be material. Additionally, unfavorable market dynamics could cause us to lower our selling prices without a change in raw material cost. There can be no assurance that the index used in such contracts will not decrease in the future or that we will be able to obtain corresponding reductions in our raw material costs. 12 Table of Contents In response to changing market conditions, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, resulting in additional cash restructuring charges and asset impairment charges. We review our business on an ongoing basis relative to current and expected market conditions, attempting to match our production capacity and cost structure to the demands of the markets in which we participate, and we strive to continuously streamline our manufacturing operations consistent with world-class standards. Accordingly, from time to time in the future, we may decide to undertake certain restructuring efforts to improve our competitive position. To the extent such decisions are made, we could incur cash restructuring charges and asset impairment charges associated with the restructuring, and such charges could be material. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales or negatively affect our results of operation and financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines or equipment within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; • an equipment failure; • a chemical spill or release; • labor difficulties; • disruptions in transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; • fires, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; • terrorism or threats of terrorism; • governmental regulations; and • other operational problems. Any such disruption could prevent us from meeting customer orders, reduce our sales or profits and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in December 2010, a severe rainy season impacted many parts of Colombia and caused us to temporarily cease manufacturing at our Cali, Colombia facility due to a breach of a levy and flooding at the industrial park where our facility is located. We established temporary offices away from the flooded area and worked with our customers to meet their critical needs through the use of our global manufacturing base. At the beginning of the second quarter of 2011, the facility had been fully restored and we had initiated production. The operations at this facility reached full run rates in the third quarter of 2011. During the period that the facility was not operational, we estimate that our profits were negatively impacted by approximately $2.5 million to $3.5 million per month due to overhead costs related to the restoration and lost profit contribution from the facility. The cash costs to restore operations were approximately $13.8 million. The cash outflows were offset by approximately $5.7 million of proceeds from all relevant insurance policies. See Note 24 “Business Interruption and Insurance Recovery” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because a significant number of our employees are represented by labor unions or trade councils and work under collective bargaining agreements, any employee slowdown or strikes or the failure to renew our collective bargaining agreements could disrupt our business. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 42% of our employees are represented by labor unions or trade councils and work under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 36% of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire within one year. We may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with these labor unions or trade councils. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business. Any such disruption could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and result in significant losses. 13 Table of Contents We generate most of our revenue from the sale of manufactured products that are used in a wide variety of consumer and industrial applications and the potential for product liability exposure could be significant. We manufacture a wide variety of products that are used in consumer and industrial applications, such as disposable diapers, baby wipes, surgical gowns, wound dressings, carpet backing and industrial packaging. As a result, we may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to make warranty payments or to participate in a recall of those products. The future costs associated with defending product liability claims or responding to product warranty claims could be material and we may experience significant losses in the future as a result. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could substantially reduce our profitability and cash generated from operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide significant machinery and components used in our production facilities. A material interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to accept and fill orders for our products. We currently depend upon a limited number of outside unaffiliated suppliers for key machinery and components used in our manufacturing and converting facilities. We cannot produce most of our nonwoven and oriented polyolefin products within the specifications required by our customers without such key machinery and components. If any of our suppliers cease to provide new machinery and components or replacement parts for existing machinery and components in sufficient quantity to meet our needs, there may not be adequate alternative sources of supply. To date, we have been able to obtain the required machinery and components to allow us to expand our business and supply products to our customers within their required specifications without any significant delays or interruptions. Obtaining alternative sources of such machinery and components could involve significant delays and other costs, and these supply sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. In some cases, we expect that it would take several months, or longer, for a new supplier to begin providing machinery and components to specification. Any disruption of machinery and component supplies could result in lost or deferred sales which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our international operations pose risks to our business that may not be present with our domestic operations. Our manufacturing facilities in the United States accounted for approximately 30% of net sales for 2011, with facilities in Europe, Latin America, Canada and Asia accounting for approximately 70% of net sales for the same period. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand operations in foreign countries where we have an existing presence or enter new foreign markets. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays in both our products and receiving delays of raw materials, changes in applicable laws, including assessments of income and non-income related taxes, reduced protection of intellectual property and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions including potential changes to export taxes or countervailing and anti-dumping duties for exported products from these countries. Any of these risks could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive and timely basis. This could reduce or impair our net sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. We have not historically hedged our exposure to foreign currency risk except for risk associated with certain capital spending projects. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws, and violations of such laws may increase costs or require us to change certain business practices. We use and generate a variety of chemicals in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances and cleanup of contaminated sites. We regularly incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, and such costs could increase significantly with changes in legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. For example, certain local governments have adopted ordinances prohibiting or restricting the use or disposal of certain plastic products, such as certain of the plastic wrapping materials that we produce. Widespread adoption of such prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect demand for our products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a material adverse effect upon us. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or 14 Table of Contents personal injury claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect our operations at our manufacturing facilities. We are also subject to laws, such as the CERCLA, that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of regulated materials at on-site or off-site locations. Additionally, greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit GHG emissions have been enacted in the European Union. Numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and various states have taken or are considering actions to regulate GHG emissions, which could adversely impact many industries including our suppliers or customers, which may result in higher costs or other impacts to our business. Within the U.S., most of these proposals would regulate and/or tax, in one fashion or another, the production of carbon dioxide and other GHGs to facilitate the reduction of carbon compound emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more clean energy. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose a significant competitive advantage. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our technologies and products against competitive pressure and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. We consider our patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to our business and seek to protect our proprietary know-how in part through United States and foreign patent and trademark registrations. We have a total of over 600 pending and approved trademark and domain name registrations worldwide and over 400 pending and approved patents worldwide, and maintain certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, we have not sought patent protection. We may not receive patents for all our pending patent applications, and existing or future patents or licenses may not provide competitive advantages for our products. Our competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. The loss of protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market value of our products, reduce product sales, lower our profits, and impair our financial condition. The loss of our senior management could disrupt our business. Our senior management is important to the success of our business because there is significant competition for executive personnel with experience in the nonwoven and oriented polyolefin industries. As a result of this need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing senior management. In addition, we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. The loss of any member of our senior management team without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside our existing management team) could restrict our ability to enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage the business effectively. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions. We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. In pursuing these transactions, we may encounter significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on the investment made, or that we experience difficulty in completing such transactions or in the integration of new operations, employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We may, as part of our long-term business strategy, evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. When we decide to sell assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms which are less than optimal. In addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations, in which case the decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. Alternatively, we may be too optimistic about a particular business’s prospects, in which case we may be unable to find a buyer at an acceptable price or sacrifice enterprise value by retaining such business. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets, which could require us to record additional asset impairment charges and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We had net property, plant and equipment of $493.4 million at December 31, 2011, representing 47% of our total assets. We recorded impairment charges to property, plant and equipment of $0.7 million and $3.4 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Restructuring initiatives and changing market conditions can impact our ability to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets. The continuing presence of these factors, as well as other factors, could require us to record additional asset impairment charges in future periods which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2011, we have recorded $147.6 million of goodwill and other intangibles assets, excluding deferred financing costs, associated with the Transactions. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. We review such assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we sell, challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property, reduced sales of certain products incorporating registered intellectual property, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by economic downturns. General worldwide economic conditions recently experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, primarily in the industrial sector, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. If certain of the markets we serve significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the downturn in economic conditions has negatively impacted the equity markets. As a result, we may experience changes in the funding positions of our defined benefit plans, which may result in increased funding requirements in the future. These economic factors have also resulted in a tightening in the global credit markets which could impact the ability to renew or extend short-term financing arrangements by us or our customers. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and may require the restatement of previously published financial information which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. We have identified past accounting errors which resulted in the restatement of previously issued financial statements, including the financial statements for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2010 and January 1, 2011. Such accounting errors resulted from a material weakness and other identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting associated with processes related to (i) the preparation and adjustment of our tax accounts and (ii) intercompany reconciliations. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have designed and have implemented extensive remediation programs to address these internal control deficiencies and material weaknesses and to strengthen our internal controls over financial reporting. Management believes that our remediation efforts have been effective with respect to our internal control over financial reporting associated with tax accounting and intercompany reconciliations. The previous material weaknesses in our internal 16 Table of Contents controls associated with tax accounting and intercompany reconciliations have been remediated. Management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting as of January 1, 2011 are both designed and operating effectively and continued to be effective as of December 31, 2011. If additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, we may fail to prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, it is possible that control deficiencies could be identified by our management or by our independent registered accounting firm in the future or may occur without being identified. Such a failure could result in regulatory scrutiny, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial condition, lead to a default under our indebtedness and otherwise materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Affiliates of the Sponsor own substantially all of the equity interests in us and may have conflicts of interest with us or the holders of the Notes in the future. As a result of the Merger, the Sponsor owns a substantial majority of our capital stock, and the Sponsor designees hold a majority of the seats on our board of directors. As a result, affiliates of the Sponsor will have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether holders of the Notes believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, affiliates of the Sponsor could collectively cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or to sell assets, or could cause us to issue additional capital stock or declare dividends. So long as the Sponsor continues to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, affiliates of the Sponsor will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility will permit us to pay advisory and other fees, dividends and make other restricted payments to the Sponsor under certain circumstances and the Sponsor or its affiliates may have an interest in our doing so. In addition, the Sponsor has no obligation to provide us with any additional debt or equity financing. The Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. The Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2011, our total debt is approximately $600.4 million. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility, the indenture governing the Notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could increase. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 17 Table of Contents • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing the ABL Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, there is no limit under the indenture governing the Notes or under the credit agreement governing the ABL Facility on the amount of the indebtedness that Polymer Group and its subsidiaries that are guarantors of the Notes can incur if the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as such term is defined in the indenture), determined on a pro forma basis, is at least 2.00 to 1.00. In addition, the indenture and the credit agreement include a number of negotiated exceptions, or “baskets” allowing Polymer Group or any of its restricted subsidiaries to incur specified additional indebtedness. For example, both the indenture and the credit agreement include a basket providing for additional indebtedness up to the greater of $75 million and 5% of Total Assets (as such term is defined in the indenture and the credit agreement). The restrictions contained in the indenture and the credit agreement also will not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. In addition, our ABL Facility provides for unused commitments of $23.8 million (subject to availability under a borrowing base and after giving effect to $10.9 million of outstanding letters of credit) as of December 31, 2011. Furthermore, we may increase our commitments under our ABL Facility without the consent of lenders under our ABL Facility other than those lenders, who, in their discretion, issue a commitment to provide all or a portion of such increase by up to an additional $20.0 million, subject to certain conditions, including debt capacity under the indenture governing the Notes. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the previous risk factor would increase. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our ABL Facility and certain of our foreign indebtedness are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. We may be unable to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. Moreover, in the event of a default, the holders of our indebtedness, including the Notes and the ABL Facility, could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. The lenders under our ABL Facility could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, and institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our ABL Facility to 18 Table of Contents avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our ABL Facility, we would be in default under our ABL Facility. The lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The indenture governing the Notes, the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility and the Lease Agreement associated with the new U.S. spunmelt line impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture governing the Notes, the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility and the Lease Agreement associated with the new U.S. spunmelt line impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions will limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock or enter into sale and leaseback obligations; • pay certain dividends or make certain distributions on our capital stock or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; • make certain loans, investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • sell certain assets or engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; • amend or otherwise alter the terms of our indebtedness; • alter the business that we conduct; • guarantee indebtedness or incur other contingent obligations; and • create liens. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our ABL Facility may require us to maintain a specified financial ratio and satisfy other financial condition tests, under certain conditions. Our ability to comply with those financial ratios and tests can be affected by factors beyond our control. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as other terms of our existing indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or cannot refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 