Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is exposed to certain risk factors that may affect future consolidated operating and financial results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our future business operations. Significance of Military and Defense Spending Military aircraft, naval vessels, and certain military vehicles contain extensive communications systems, electronic countermeasure equipment for defense against enemy weapons, smart weapons and munitions, and radar systems. We provide advanced specialty products and various microwave components and integrated assemblies to major equipment manufacturers for installation into these systems. In addition, our precision position sensors are used in numerous military vehicles and aircraft. In fiscal year 2010, military/defense sales represented approximately 60% of our total consolidated sales. In recent years, demand for our products has been favorably impacted by an upward trend in U.S. defense spending. Future defense budgets, however, may be impacted by numerous economic and political factors. In addition, the specific programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. While we believe many of our products are used in high priority military/defense programs, one or more of the programs that we currently serve could be phased-out or terminated. Reductions in these existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, would adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Volatile Communications Equipment Market In fiscal year 2010, approximately 17% of our consolidated sales were to original equipment manufacturers of communications equipment, with a significant portion of these sales supporting wireless infrastructure equipment. Several years ago, capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure equipment by service providers declined dramatically. Market conditions in the industry remain unpredictable and overall capital spending for wireless infrastructure equipment is still volatile. If the current market conditions deteriorate, it will have a material negative impact on our future operating performance. Competitive Markets The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and evolving industry standards. We face competition from component manufacturers which have integration capabilities, as well as from the internal capabilities of large original equipment manufacturers and defense prime contractors. Our future success will depend in part upon the extent to which these parties elect to purchase from outside sources rather than manufacture their own components and systems. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us, and have greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies. Our competitors may develop new technologies or products that may offer superior price or performance features, and new products or technologies may render our customers’ products obsolete. General Economic Conditions A continuation or resurgence of the recent global economic downturn and credit crisis may have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. Specific risk factors related to these overall economic and credit conditions include the following: customer or potential customers may reduce or delay their new product development and component procurement; key suppliers may become insolvent resulting in delays for our material purchases; vendors and other third parties may fail to perform their contractual obligations; customers may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; and certain customers may become insolvent. These risk factors could reduce our product sales, increase our operating costs, impact our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables, lengthen our cash conversion cycle and increase our need for cash, which would ultimately decrease our profitability and negatively impact our financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Need for Continuous New Product Development We must continue to make significant investments in research and development efforts in order to develop necessary product enhancements, new designs and technologies. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of engineers, or other technical support staff, or the funds necessary to support our research and development efforts when needed. In addition, our research and development efforts may not be successful, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. Our customers’ technologies are complex and new products and enhancements developed by our customers can in turn require long development periods for our new products or for enhancement or adaptation of our existing products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Integrating Acquired Businesses As part of our growth strategy, we expect to make strategic acquisitions which expand our technologies, product offerings, and customer base. Historically, our acquisitions have been integrated into our existing businesses. The acquisition and integration of businesses includes numerous risks, including the following: (1) potential exposure to unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; (2) higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses; (3) potential disruption to our ongoing business and diversion of management time and attention; (4) difficulties in adopting and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; (5) loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and (6) possible dilution to our shareholders. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions. In addition, we may make a strategic acquisition knowing that the transaction may adversely affect our short-term profitability, perhaps because the acquisition candidate may be experiencing operating losses. We may believe that the benefits of acquiring such a company outweigh the operating losses the candidate is experiencing and the losses that we expect to experience before being able to make the acquisition candidate profitable. The completion of such an acquisition in the future would negatively affect our profitability and may cause a decline in our stock price. Future acquisitions may also require significant increases in our bank indebtedness, and related restrictive loan covenants, which may negatively impact our future operating performance and financial results. Retaining and Attracting Technical Personnel There is a continuing demand for qualified technical personnel. We believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense and there are a limited number of persons, especially engineers, with knowledge of and experience in our technologies. Our design and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. Protecting Intellectual Property Rights Our success is dependent upon our proprietary technology. We do not currently have any patents that are material to our business. We rely principally on trade secret and copyright laws, certain employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, as well as limited access to and distribution of proprietary information, in order to protect our technology. Trade secret laws afford us limited protection because they cannot be used to prevent third parties from reverse engineering and reproducing our products. Similarly, copyright laws afford us limited protection because copyright protection extends only to how an idea is expressed and does not protect the idea itself. Moreover, third parties could independently develop technologies that compete with our technologies. We cannot provide assurance that the obligations on the part of our employees and business partners to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology will prevent disclosure of such information by our employees or third parties. Litigation may be necessary for us to defend against claims of infringement or protect our proprietary technology, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. We cannot provide assurances that we would prevail in any such litigation. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that our products and proprietary rights do not infringe on the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot provide assurance that infringement claims, regardless of merit, will not be asserted against us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection of our proprietary technology may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. 20 Table of Contents International Sales and Operations In fiscal year 2010, sales to international customers comprised approximately 18% of our net sales, and we expect our international business to continue to account for a significant part of our revenues. We currently maintain manufacturing facilities in Mexico and China. International sales and operations are subject to numerous risks including political and economic instability in foreign markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations, restrictive trade policies of foreign governments, inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments, imposition of product tariffs, and the costs of complying with a wide variety of export laws and regulatory requirements. For certain of our international products and system sales, we must obtain appropriate export licenses. Because of these various risks and uncertainties, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in international markets or that our international sales will be profitable. Price Fluctuations for Precious Metals Raw materials used in the manufacture of certain ceramic capacitors include silver, palladium, and platinum. Certain of our microwave components and systems require gold plating. Precious metals are available from many sources; however, their prices may be subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may have a material and adverse affect on our operating results. Price Pressures from our Customers Many of our commercial customers are under continuous pressure to reduce costs and, therefore, we expect to continue to experience pressure from these customers to reduce the prices of the products that we sell to them. These customers frequently negotiate volume supply arrangements well in advance of delivery dates, requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine whether the assumed cost reductions or the negotiated supply volumes can be achieved. To offset declining average sales prices to these commercial customers, we believe that we must achieve manufacturing cost reductions and increase our sales volumes. If we are unable to offset declining average selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and this decline could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Environmental Issues Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. We cannot provide assurance that the aggregate amount of future clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or more strict interpretations of existing laws and regulations may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. Possible Impairment of Goodwill As a result of the three business acquisitions we completed in fiscal year 2010, and several acquisitions we made in previous years, goodwill is a significant part of our total assets. At November 30, 2010, our total assets were $157.6 million, which included $45.9 million of goodwill. This goodwill reflects the excess of the purchase price of each of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired. We perform annual evaluations for potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill in accordance with current accounting standards. To date, these evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment charge. However, if our future financial performance were to decline significantly, we could incur a material non-cash charge in our income statement and a material reduction in our stockholders’ equity for the impairment of goodwill. Risks Related to our Securities A number of factors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate significantly, including: (1) our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; (2) the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (3) changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; (4) changes in general economic factors, financial markets, or pertinent industry-wide conditions; (5) natural disasters, terrorist attacks, or acts of war; and (6) other developments affecting us or our competitors. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Pennsylvania law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Pennsylvania corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Pennsylvania law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide, among other things, for board 21 Table of Contents members to serve staggered three-year terms. Our incorporation under Pennsylvania law, the acceleration of the vesting of outstanding stock options upon a change in control, and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our Common Stock which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our Common Stock. Other Risks and Uncertainties Our results of operations may be negatively affected in the future by a variety of other factors, including: (1) cancellation of existing sales order backlog; (2) unanticipated impairment of long-lived assets; (3) changes in product mix; (4) inability to timely increase production to meet some of our customer’s increased demands; and (5) litigation involving antitrust, product warranty, product liability, and other issues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 22 Table of Contents 