Item 1A. Risk Factors The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent improvements in products and services. If technologies supported by our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread acceptance, as a result of a change in the industry standards or otherwise, our business could be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on factors including our ability to establish close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new systems and products; our ability to identify, develop and achieve market acceptance of new products that address technologies and meet our customer needs; our ability to continue to apply our expertise and technologies to existing and emerging markets; and our ability to achieve acceptable product costs on new products. We must also continue to make significant investments in research and development efforts in order to develop necessary product enhancements, new designs and technologies. We may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of engineers, or other technical support staff, or the funds necessary to support our research and development efforts when needed. In addition, our research and development efforts may not be successful, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. Current technologies are complex and new products and enhancements developed by our customers can in turn require long development periods for our new products, or for enhancement or adaptation of our existing products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Other risk factors applicable to the Company are discussed under the heading “Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results” included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as set forth herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 18 Table of Contents 