Item 1A. Risk Factors The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent improvements in products and services. If technologies supported by our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread acceptance, as a result of a change in the industry standards or otherwise, our business could be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on factors including our ability to establish close working relationships with major customers for the design of their new systems and products; our ability to identify, develop and achieve market acceptance of new products that address technologies and meet our customer needs; our ability to continue to apply our expertise and technologies to existing and emerging markets; and our ability to achieve acceptable product costs on new products. A number of factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: our quarterly operating results or those of our competitors; the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; changes in earning estimates or recommendations by research analysts; changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide; changes in industry-wide conditions, particularly within the military/defense, communications, and medical equipment markets; and developments affecting our competitors. In addition, the U.S. stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Other risk factors applicable to the Company are discussed under the heading “Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results” included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as set forth herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 17 Table of Contents 