Item 1A. Risk Factors BUSINESS RISKS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business. Although we have tried to discuss all material risks at the time this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been filed, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements are the following: The Current Business Environment, Including A Prolonged Economic Recovery, May Adversely Affect Our Industry, Business, Results Of Operations And Capital Levels The recent global recession has resulted in a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, reduced asset values (including residential and commercial properties), reduced business profits, increased rates of business and consumer delinquency, and increased rates of unemployment and consumer bankruptcy, some of which have had a negative impact on our results of operation. Although the overall economic recovery seems to be underway, it has remained modest and fragile. A recovery that is only shallow and very gradual, marked by continued elevated unemployment rates and reduced home prices, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as customers default on their loans or maintain lower deposit levels or, in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances an d reduce credit card purchase activity. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · Adverse macroeconomic developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, changes in consumer behavior, including decreased consumer spending and a shift in consumer payment strategies towards avoiding late fees, over-limit fees, finance charges and other fees, could have an adverse impact on our revenues. 11 Table of Contents · Increases in consumer bankruptcies could cause increases in our charge-off rates, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. · Our ability to recover debt that we have previously charged-off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. · The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because these processes rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which could have a negative impact on our business. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which could limit our access to funding. · Increased charge-offs, rising LIBOR and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled, which could accelerate our need for additional funding from other sources. · We have increased our reliance on deposit funding, and an inability to accept or maintain deposits or to obtain other sources of funding could materially affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. Many other financial institutions have also increased their reliance on deposit funding and, as such, we expect continued competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. · Regulators, rating agencies or investors could change their standards regarding appropriate capital levels for banks in general or our company in particular. If the new standards call for capital levels higher than the capital we have or that we anticipate, it could have negative impacts on our ability to lend or to grow deposits and on our business results. · Increased prepayments, refinancing or other factors could lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Compliance With New And Existing Laws And Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Reduce Our Revenue, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges There has been increased legislation and regulation with respect to the financial services industry in the last few years, and we expect that oversight of our business will continue to expand in scope and complexity. A wide and increasing array of banking, consumer lending and deposit laws apply to almost every aspect of our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The Credit CARD Act (amending the Truth-in-Lending Act) and related changes to Regulation Z impose a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees and also update the disclosures required for open-end credit. For example, increases in rates charged on pre-existing card balances are restricted, and rates increased since January 1, 2009, must now be considered for possible reductions. Overlimit fees may not be imposed without prior consent of the customer, and the number of such fees that can be charged for the same violation is constrained. The amount of any penalty fee or charge must be “reasonable and proportional” to the violation. Although we did not engage in many of the practices prohibited by the amendments, the rules could have a material adverse effect on futu re revenues in our U.S. credit card business and could make the card business generally less resilient in future economic downturns. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the related rules and regulations adopted by various regulatory agencies, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There are a number of provisions in the Dodd-Frank act that impact our business, including the following: · The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent supervisory body, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) that is to be housed within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB will become the primary regulator for federal consumer financial statutes. State attorneys general will be authorized to enforce new regulations issued by the CFPB. Although state consumer financial laws will continue to be preempted under the National Bank Act under the existing standard set forth in the Supreme Court decision in Barnett Bank of Marion County, N.A. v. Nelson, OCC determinations of such preemption must be on a case-by-case basis. Courts reviewing the OCC's preemption determinations will now consider the appropriateness of those determinations under a different standard of judicial review. As a result, state consumer financial laws enacted in the fu ture may be held to apply to our business activities. The cost of complying with these additional laws could have a negative impact on our financial results. 12 Table of Contents · The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve released proposed rules implementing this portion of the Dodd-Frank Act, which among other things, would limit interchange fees to no greater than 12 cents for each debit card transaction. If finalized as proposed, the rules could negatively impact revenue from our debit card business. The issue of interchange generally will continue to be raised by legislators at the state and Federal level. While the future of these proposals is uncertain, if negative legislation is enacted, any subsequent negotiations with merchants could reduce the interchange fees that we are able to collect. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of other provisions that will impact our business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to change the deposit insurance assessment base from deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The FDIC recently finalized rules to implement this change and to modify significantly how deposit insurance assessment rates are calculated for those banks with assets of $10 billion or greater. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, many trust preferred securities will cease to qualify for Tier 1 capital, subject to a three year phase-out period expected to begin in 2013. And the Dodd-Frank Act will most likely subject us to the supervision of regulatory agencies that histori cally have not regulated our businesses, such as the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to our derivatives activities. These provisions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition by increasing our cost of funding, our cost of capital or our cost of complying with applicable laws and regulations. Certain laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, may benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, but not stockholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, growth and capital levels. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. For a description of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, please refer to Supervision and Regulation in Item 1. Business. We May Experience Increased Delinquencies And Credit Losses Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies, higher rates of non-performing loans, higher bankruptcy rates, lower collateral values or elevated unemployment rates) may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area: · Missed Payments. Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition. Our reported delinquency levels measure these trends. Customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn or prolonged periods of slow economic growth. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (for example, an increase in the unwillingness or inability of customers to repay debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs. · Estimates of Inherent losses. The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions. We may underestimate our inherent losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of inherent losses and inadequate allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, our estimate of inherent losses impacts the amount of allowances we build to account for those losses. The increase or release of allowances impacts our current financial results. · Underwriting. Our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs (due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, including the unemployment rate), our credit losses may increase and our returns may deteriorate. 13 Table of Contents · Business Mix. Our business mix could change in ways that could adversely affect credit losses. We participate in a mix of businesses with a broad range of credit loss characteristics. Consequently, changes in our business mix may change our charge-off rate. · Charge-off Recognition. The rules governing charge-off recognition could change. We record charge-offs according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules, including the FFIEC Account Management Guidance, could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices and cause our charge-offs to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation. · Industry Practices. Our charge-off and delinquency rates may be negatively impacted by industry developments, including new regulations applicable to our industry. · Collateral. Collateral, when we have it, could be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their loans and we have collateral, we attempt to seize it where permissible and appropriate. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Particularly with respect to our commercial lending and home loan activities, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. · New York Concentration. Although our lending is geographically diversified, approximately 45% of our commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. The regional economic conditions in the New York area affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A prolonged decline in the general economic conditions in the New York region could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial loan portfolio and our results of operations. We May Experience Increased Losses Associated With Mortgage Repurchases and Indemnification Obligations Certain of our subsidiaries, including GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. ("GreenPoint"), Capital One Home Loans and CONA, as successor to Chevy Chase Bank, may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to investors in the event there are certain breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. These subsidiaries also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of t he related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. We have established a reserve in our consolidated financial statements for potential losses that are considered to be both probable and reasonably estimable related to the mortgage loans sold by our originating subsidiaries. The adequacy of the reserve and the ultimate amount of losses incurred will depend on, among other things, the actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rate of claimants, developments in litigation related to us and the industry, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that our reserves will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. For additional informat ion related to our mortgage loan repurchase and indemnification obligations and related reserves, see “MD&A – Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis and Credit Performance – Potential Mortgage Representation and Warranty Liabilities.” We May Not Be Able to Maintain Adequate Capital Levels or Liquidity, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Financial Results As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and international accords, financial institutions will become subject to new and increased capital and liquidity requirements. While it is not yet clear what form these requirements will take or how they will apply to us, it is possible that we could be required to increase our capital levels above the levels in our current financial plans. These new requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to lend, grow deposit balances or make acquisitions and on our ability to make capital distributions in the form of increased dividends or share repurchases. Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity. Recent developments in capital and liquidity requirements that may impact us include the following: · In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a final framework (commonly known as Basel III) on capital and liquidity. The key elements of the capital proposal include raising the quality, consistency and transparency of the capital base, strengthening the risk coverage of the capital framework, introducing a leverage ratio that is different from the U.S. leverage ratio measures and promoting the build-up of capital buffers. The liquidity framework includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision, one standard promoting short-term resilience and the other promoting longer-term resilience. How U.S. banking regulations wil l be modified to reflect these international standards remains unclear, particularly given the forthcoming capital and other prudential requirement regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act and the current Prompt Corrective Action framework. We expect, however, that minimum capital and liquidity requirements for the Company and other institutions will increase as a result of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and related activity. 14 Table of Contents · Because we are a consolidated bank holding company with consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater, we are subject to certain heightened prudential requirements, including requirements that may be recommended by the Financial Stability Oversight Council and implemented by the Federal Reserve. As a result, we expect to be subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable for smaller institutions, including risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits and liquidity requirements. See "Item 1. Business — Supervision and Regulation — Capital Adequacy" for additional information. We Face Risk Related To The Strength Of Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. We have substantially completed significant development projects to complete the systems integration of Chevy Chase Bank and to build a scalable banking infrastructure. Implementation of such infrastructure changes and upgrades may, at least temporarily, cause disruptions to our business, including, but not limited to, systems interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays, all of which could have a negative impact on us. Similar to other large corporations, we are exposed to operational risk that can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of our company and exposure to external events. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use to manage our internal financial and other systems, interface with our customers and develop and implement effective marketing campaigns. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones and to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations depends on the functionality of our operational and technology systems. Any disruptions or failures of our operational and technology systems, including those associated with improvements or modifications to such systems, could cause us to be unable to market and manage our products and services or to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we outsource the maintenance and development of our operational and technological functionality to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Any increase in the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties may increase our exposure to these risks. We May Fail To Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of Our Mergers And Acquisitions We have engaged in merger and acquisition activity over the past several years and may continue to engage in such activity in the future. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of such mergers and acquisitions, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matte rs may have an adverse effect on us during any transition period. Our acquisitions also may involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new areas or these new businesses. These new businesses change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and could react differently to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses or in these new markets. We Face the Risk of Fluctuations in Our Expenses and Other Costs That May Hurt Our Financial Results Our expenses and other costs, such as operating, labor and marketing expenses, directly affect our earnings results. In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provide them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage our expenses. Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as well as how quickly they may increase. Our on-going investments in infrastructure, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate newly-acquired businesses and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. In addition, as our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asse t purchases or other acquisitions, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations or the integration of newly acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected. Reputational Risk and Social Factors May Impact Our Results Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our business practices or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Particularly, negative perceptions regarding our reputation could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by accountholders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception regarding consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of personal bankruptcy. If consumers develop negative attitudes about incurring debt or if consumption trends continue to decline, our business and financial results will be negatively affected. We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts or may lose account balances to competing financial institutions, or we may find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings. We expect that competition will continue to increase with respect to most of our products. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, broad-based local distribution capabilities, lower-cost funding and larger existing branch networks. In addition, some of our competitors are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage. 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Market Interest Rates Or the Capital Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue and Expense, the Value of Assets and Obligations, Our Cost of Capital or Our Liquidity Like other financial institutions, our business may be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. Changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. For example, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other earning assets. We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Fluctuations in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term rates and long-term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and co mpetitor responses to those changes may effect the rate of customer pre-payments for mortgage, auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. In addition, changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Finally, such market changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See “MD&A—Market Risk Management” for additional information. Our Business Could Be Negatively Affected If It Is Unable to Attract, Retain and Motivate Skilled Senior Leaders Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of our business. The executive compensation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations issued thereunder, and any further legislation or regulation restricting executive compensation, may limit the types of compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our most senior leaders and could have a negative impact on our ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of our long-term strategy. These laws and regulations may not apply in the same manner to all financial institutions, and we therefore may face more restrictions than other institutions and companies with whom we compete for talent. If we are unable to retain talented senior leadership, our business could be negatively affected. Our Businesses are Subject to the Risk of Increased Litigation Our businesses are subject to increased litigation as a result of the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry and the structure of the credit card industry, and we face risks from the outcomes of such industry litigation. Substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. For a description of the litigation risks that we face, see “Note 21—Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees.” We Face Risks from Unpredictable Catastrophic Events Despite our substantial business contingency plans, the impact from natural disasters and other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, may have a negative effect on our business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We Face Risks from the Use of Estimates in Our Financial Statements Pursuant to United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including, but not limited to, estimating our allowance for loan and lease losses and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. If the assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience unexpected material losses. For a discussion of our use of estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 