Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements in this report. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different — sometimes materially different — than we presently anticipate. A discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our substantial amount of debt could adversely affect our financial health. Our consolidated debt is substantial and we are highly leveraged, which could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations relating to our Series B preferred stock. As of December 31, 2010, our ratio of total debt to last twelve months Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in our credit agreement governing our first lien credit facility term loan due June 2012 (the “First Lien Credit Facility”) was 8.1 to 1.0. Our substantial level of debt could have several important consequences to the holders of our securities, including the following: • a significant portion of our net cash flow from operations will be dedicated to servicing our debt obligations and will not be available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes will be limited; • our substantial debt could make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or in the general economy and increases in interest rates, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • our substantial debt could place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations relating to our Series B preferred stock. Our ability to satisfy all of our debt obligations depends upon our future operating performance which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and to service our debt requirements as they become due. However, if we are unable to pay our debts, whether upon acceleration of our debt or in the ordinary course of business, we will be forced to pursue alternative strategies such as selling assets, restructuring or refinance our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that we can successfully complete any of these alternative strategies on satisfactory terms or that the approval of the FCC could be obtained on a timely basis, or at all, for the assignment of any of the stations’ licenses in connection with a proposed sale of assets. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and to make cash dividend payments under our Series B preferred stock. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we had net cash interest expense of $10.8 million. During 2010, we paid dividends in cash to holders of the Series B preferred stock in an amount equal to $2.4 million. Since October 15, 2008, we have been required to pay dividends in cash on our Series B preferred stock. We did not make the cash dividend payments that would otherwise have been scheduled for July and October of 2009, January, July and October of 2010 and January of 2011. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, pay dividends in cash on our Series B preferred stock, repurchase our Series B preferred stock when, and if, we are required to do so and to fund necessary or desired capital expenditures and any future acquisitions, will depend on our ability to generate and maintain cash in the future. Further, our ability to satisfy our obligations, including making the payments described above, and to reduce our total indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which may be beyond our control. 21 Table of Contents Any acceleration of our debt or event of default would harm our business and financial condition. If there were an event of default under our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including the First Lien Credit Facility and our other existing debt instruments, the holders of the affected indebtedness could elect to declare all of that indebtedness to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could cause some or all of our or our subsidiaries’ other indebtedness to become due and payable. We cannot assure you that we or our subsidiaries would have sufficient funds available, or that we or our subsidiaries would have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay the accelerated debt. Even if we or our subsidiaries could obtain additional financing, we cannot assure you that the terms would be favorable to us. Under the terms of our First Lien Credit Facility and our other existing debt instruments, if the amounts outstanding under our indebtedness were accelerated, our lenders would have the right to foreclose on their liens on substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets (with the exception of our FCC broadcasting licenses held by certain of our subsidiaries, because a grant of a security interest therein would be prohibited by law, and certain general intangibles and fixed assets under particular limited circumstances) and on the stock of our subsidiaries. As a result, any event of default under our material debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Despite our current significant level of debt, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which, if incurred, could further intensify the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the terms of our First Lien Credit Facility and our other existing debt instruments restrict our ability to incur additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the related risks described above that we and our subsidiaries face could intensify. The terms of our existing debt and our preferred stock impose or will impose restrictions on us that may adversely affect our business. The terms of our Series B preferred stock, our Series C preferred stock (the Series C preferred stock, together with the Series B preferred stock, the “Preferred Stock”) and our First Lien Credit Facility contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur additional debt, incur contingent obligations and issue additional preferred stock; • redeem or repurchase securities ranking junior to our Series B preferred stock; • create liens and encumbrances; • pay dividends, distributions or make other specified restricted payments, and restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • sell assets; • make certain capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions; • change or add lines of business; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • issue capital stock or other equity interests; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; and • merge or consolidate with any other person, company or other entity or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all, or substantially all, of our assets. 22 Table of Contents The terms of the First Lien Credit Facility and Series B preferred stock also require us to satisfy certain financial conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. All of these covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by our future operating performance and economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which may be beyond our control. If one or more of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. If an event of default occurs under the First Lien Credit Facility, the lenders and/or the noteholders could elect to declare all amounts of debt outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, there are change of control provisions in the First Lien Credit Facility and the certificates of designations governing our Series B preferred stock, each of which would cause an acceleration of the applicable indebtedness and/or require us to make an offer to repurchase the Series B preferred stock in the event that we experience a change of control. We may not have the funds or the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase our Series B preferred stock if holders exercise their repurchase right, or to finance the change of control offer required by our Series B preferred stock. On October 15, 2013, each holder of Series B preferred stock will have the right to require us to redeem all or a portion of the Series B preferred stock at a purchase price of 100% of the liquidation preference thereof, plus all accumulated and unpaid dividends to the date of repurchase. In addition, if we experience certain kinds of changes of control as described in the certificate of designations creating the Series B preferred stock, subject to certain restrictions in our debt instruments, we will be required to make an offer to purchase the Series B preferred stock for cash at a purchase price of 101% of the liquidation preference thereof, plus accumulated dividends. The source of funds for any such repurchases would be our available cash, cash generated from operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling person or entity. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to us on favorable terms, or at all, to repurchase all tendered Series B preferred stock, pursuant to these requirements. Our failure to offer to repurchase or to repurchase Series B preferred stock would result in a voting rights triggering event under the certificate of designations governing our Series B preferred stock, which permits the holders of Series B preferred stock to elect two members to the Company’s Board of Directors. Our First Lien Credit Facility currently limits our ability to purchase any of our Series B preferred stock. Prior to repurchasing our Series B preferred stock, on a change of control event, we must either repay outstanding debt under our First Lien Credit Facility or obtain the consent of the lenders under such facility. If we do not obtain the required consents or repay our outstanding debt under our First Lien Credit Facility, we would remain effectively prohibited from offering to repurchase our Series B preferred stock. We may not have the funds or the ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, any business strategy or other general corporate purposes. We believe we have sufficient cash available to fund our operations and to support our acquisition business strategy. We may need additional financing due to future developments or changes in our business plan. We may need to rely on cash from operations to support our capital expenditures and acquisition business strategy. In addition, our actual funding requirements could vary materially from our current estimates. If additional financing is needed, we may not be able to raise sufficient funds on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain any necessary financing on a timely basis, a number of adverse effects could occur. 23 Table of Contents A lowering of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt ratings are below the “investment grade” category, which results in higher borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that our debt ratings will not be lowered in the future by a rating agency. A lowering in the rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Capital requirements necessary to implement strategic initiatives could pose risks. The purchase price of possible acquisitions and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the strategic opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional equity financing could result in dilution to our shareholders. Risks Related to our Business If U.S. economic conditions deteriorate or do not improve, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Revenue generated by our media broadcasting stations depends primarily upon the sale of advertising. Our operating results have been adversely affected by the recession and lack of a major recovery in the United States economy since advertising expenditures, which we believe to be largely a discretionary business expense, generally decrease as the economy slows down. As a result of the adverse impact on the general economic activity in the United States, advertising revenues have also declined due to advertising cancellations and delays or defaults in payment for advertising time. While the condition of the U.S. economy appears to be improving, if it does not continue to improve or it begins to deteriorate, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets is directly affected by local or regional economic conditions. A concentration of stations in any particular market intensifies our exposure to regional economic declines. We are particularly dependent on advertising revenue from the New York, Los Angeles and Miami markets, which accounted for more than 70% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. An economic decline in any of these markets could adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. In addition, some of our advertisers and clients could experience serious cash flow problems due to the economic downturn. As a result, they may attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs or alter payment terms. Our advertisers may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. While these difficult economic conditions appear to be improving, there is no guarantee that they will continue to improve in the future, and any continuation or worsening of the credit markets, or even the fear of such a development, could intensify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our results of operations. We have experienced a decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers which has and could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. Even in the absence of a general recession or downturn in the economy, an individual business sector that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a downturn. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its expenditures may affect our revenue. We have experienced net losses in the past and, to the extent that we experience net losses in the future, our ability to raise capital and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We may not achieve sustained profitability. Failure to achieve sustained profitability may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital and to incur additional debt. Our inability to obtain financing in adequate amounts and on acceptable terms necessary to operate our business, repay our debt obligations or finance our proposed acquisitions could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We compete for advertising revenue with other broadcast stations, as well as other media, many operators of which have greater resources than we do. The success of our stations is primarily dependent upon their share of overall advertising revenues within their markets, especially in New York, Los Angeles, and Miami. Our broadcast stations compete in their respective markets for audiences and advertising revenues with other broadcast stations of all formats, as well as with other media, such as newspapers, magazines, television, satellite radio, cable services, outdoor advertising, the Internet and direct mail. In addition, a new electronic audience measurement technology, the Arbitron® Portable People Meter TM, was introduced in all of our radio markets, excluding Puerto Rico. We are monitoring the effects of this new ratings system on a continuous basis and are ascertaining the impact the Arbitron® Portable People Meter TM has had on ratings and advertising sales in the markets in which we operate. Our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues may decline and any adverse change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our business as a whole. Although we believe that each of our broadcast stations is able to compete effectively in its respective market, we cannot assure you that any station will be able to maintain or increase its current audience ratings and advertising revenues. Specifically, radio stations can change formats quickly. Any other radio station currently broadcasting could shift its format to duplicate the format of, or develop a format which is more popular than, any of our stations. If a station converts its programming to a format similar to that of one of our stations, or if one of our competitors strengthens its operations, the ratings and station operating income of our station in that market could be adversely affected. In addition, other radio companies which are larger and have more resources may also enter markets in which we operate. A large portion of our net revenue and operating income currently comes from our New York, Los Angeles, and Miami markets. Our New York, Los Angeles and Miami markets accounted for more than 70% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Therefore, any volatility in our revenues or operating income attributable to stations in these markets could have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated net revenues or operating income. A significant decline in net revenue or operating income from our stations in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Since our revenues are concentrated in these markets, an economic downturn, increased competition, or another significant negative event in any of these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. Cancellations or reductions in advertising could adversely affect our net revenues. We do not generally obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers. As a result, our advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders. Cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising could adversely affect our net revenues, especially if we are unable to replace these purchases. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future net revenues and are relatively fixed once set. Therefore, unforeseen decreases in advertising sales could have a material adverse impact on our net revenues and operating income. The success of our television operation depends upon our ability to attract viewers and advertisers to our broadcast television operation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract viewers and advertisers to our broadcast television operation. If we cannot attract viewers, our television operation may suffer from low ratings, which in turn may deter potential advertisers. The inability to successfully attract viewers and advertisers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results for our television operation. Television programming is a highly competitive business. Television stations compete in their respective markets for audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and larger, more established networks. As a result of this competition, our rating share may not grow and an adverse change in our local markets could have a material adverse impact on the revenue of our television operation. Our industry is subject to technological changes and, if we are unable to match or surpass such change, it may result in a loss of competitive advantage and market opportunity. The success of the television operation is largely dependent on certain factors, such as the extent of distribution of the developed programming, the ability to attract viewers, advertisers and acquire programming, and the market and advertiser acceptance of our programming. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our initiative or that such initiatives will generate revenues or ultimately be profitable. 25 Table of Contents Our growth depends on successfully executing our expansion strategy. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, the expansion of our media business, through acquisitions and affiliations, primarily in the largest U.S. Hispanic markets, as a growth strategy. We cannot assure you that our growth strategy will be successful. Our growth strategy is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the limits on our ability to acquire additional stations due to our substantial level of debt; • the need to raise additional financing, which may be limited by the terms of our debt instruments and market conditions; • the failure to increase our station operating income or yield other anticipated benefits for future acquired stations; • the need for required regulatory approvals, including FCC and antitrust approvals; • the challenges of managing any rapid growth; and • the difficulties of programming newly acquired stations to attract listenership or viewership. In addition, we may finance acquisitions with the issuance, or through sales of, our common stock in the public market which could adversely affect our stock price, due to dilution, and our ability to raise funds necessary to grow our business through additional stock offerings. Although we intend to pursue additional strategic acquisitions, our ability to do so is significantly restricted by the terms of the First Lien Credit Facility, the certificates of designations governing our Preferred Stock and our ability to raise additional funds. Additionally, our competitors, who may have greater resources than we do, may have an advantage over us in pursuing and completing strategic acquisitions. Our business is dependent upon the performance of key employees, on-air talent and program hosts. Our business depends upon the efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including on-air talent, and our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts with significant loyal audiences in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our executive officers, key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate ratings and revenues. The loss of any of these executive officers and key employees, particularly Raúl Alarcón, Jr., Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. Increased programming and content costs may adversely affect our profits. We produce and acquire programming and content and incur costs for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability. 26 Table of Contents Piracy of our programming and other content, including digital and internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of our programming and other content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability. Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of our content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on our businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our products and services. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially impact our operations in specific geographic areas, as well as nationally, and it may decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease our revenues or expose us to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the U.S., contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally and specifically, as well as the market for advertising. In addition, natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, could adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Matters Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the company’s business. The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations. We cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our television and radio stations and our television network. FCC regulations limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide. Under the Cable Act, every three years each broadcast station is required to elect to exercise the right, either to require cable television system operators in its local market to carry its signal, or to prohibit cable carriage or condition it upon payment of a fee or other consideration. Under these “must carry” provisions of the Cable Act, a broadcaster may demand carriage on a specific channel on cable systems within its market. These “must carry” rights are not absolute, and under some circumstances, a cable system may be entitled not to carry a given station. Under current FCC rules, cable systems and direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, will also be required to carry our post-transition digital signal. The FCC’s current rules require cable and DBS operators to carry only one channel of the digital signal of our television stations, despite the capability of digital broadcasters to broadcast multiple program streams within one station’s digital allotment. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of our radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions on political advertising may adversely affect our advertising revenues. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to examine and potentially regulate more closely embedded advertising such as product placement and product integration. Enhanced restrictions affecting these means of delivering advertising messages may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by us. We are unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on our operations. 27 Table of Contents The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations and potentially adversely impact our ability to compete. In March 2010, the FCC delivered its National Broadband Plan to Congress. The Plan reviews the nation’s broadband infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives designed to spur broadband deployment and use. In an effort to make available more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the Broadband Plan proposes to recapture and reallocate certain spectrum including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and “repacking” of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. If voluntary measures fail to provide the amount of spectrum the FCC considers necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the Broadband Plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. In November 2010, the FCC issued rulemakings containing proposals that would enable wireless providers to have equal access to broadcast spectrum that could be made available through spectrum auctions as well as proposals to enable TV stations to voluntarily combine operations on a single TV channel. Proposals to permit voluntary spectrum auctions would require Congressional action. At this time we cannot predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the Broadband Plan or its effect on our television stations. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the Internet to originate and/or distribute our station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Proposed legislation requires radio broadcasters to pay royalties to record labels and recording artists. Legislation was introduced in the last Congressional session that would require radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. The legislation failed to pass but is expected to be reintroduced in the next Congress. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music, Inc., the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers and SESAC, Inc. The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. In addition, radio and recording industry representatives have entered into negotiations which may result in an agreement to resolve the performance fee issue. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, whether industry groups will enter into an agreement with respect to fees, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position. 28 Table of Contents We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology, services and standards which characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. For example, the FCC has implemented new technologies in the broadcast industry, including satellite, and is considering introducing terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting, and the standardization of available technologies which significantly enhance the sound quality of AM and FM broadcasts. In some cases, our ability to compete will be dependent on our acquisition of new technologies and our provision of new services, and we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire those new technologies or provide those new services; in other cases, the introduction of new technologies and services could increase competition and have an adverse effect on our revenue. Recent new media technologies and services include the following: • audio programming by cable television operators, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications and wireless systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • the Internet offers new, diverse and evolving forms of video and audio program distribution; • direct satellite broadcast television companies are supplying subscribers with several high quality music channels; • satellite digital audio radio technology has resulted in new satellite radio services with multi-channel programming and enhanced sound quality; • the introduction of in-band on-channel digital radio provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; • the provision of video programming to cellular telephones, digital handheld devices and gaming consoles; and • low power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast stations in markets where we have stations. We also cannot assure you that we will continue to have the resources to acquire other new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with other new technologies. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our business. Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives can cause our net income or net loss to fluctuate significantly. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $346.6 million of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $32.8 million and FCC broadcasting licenses of $313.8 million on our consolidated balance sheets. These unamortized intangible assets represented approximately 73% of our total assets. Accounting standards require that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as FCC broadcasting licenses, cease to be amortized. Accounting standards require that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or FCC broadcasting licenses exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss in our results of operations. We currently account for our FCC broadcasting licenses as indefinite lived assets. In the event we are no longer able to conclude that our FCC broadcasting licenses have indefinite lives, we may be required to amortize such licenses. The amortization of our FCC broadcasting licenses would affect our earnings and earnings per share. The impairment tests require us to make estimates of the fair value of our intangible assets, which is determined by using a discounted cash flow methodology. Since a number of factors may influence the fair value of our intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a corresponding operating loss, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FCC has begun more vigorous enforcement of its indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FCC’s rules and regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC in the last few years has stepped up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened on more than one occasion to initiate license revocation or license renewal proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a “serious” indecency violation. The FCC has substantially increased its monetary penalties for violations of these regulations pursuant to law enacted in 2006 that provides the FCC with authority to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident or profane utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3.0 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. We have in the past been the subject and may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of indecent or obscene material. To the extent that these pending inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. We also face increased potential costs in the form of fines for indecency violations, and we cannot predict whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. 29 Table of Contents Our operation of various real properties and station facilities could lead to environmental liability and increased compliance costs. As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and station facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local compliance and environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. However, there can be no assurance that compliance with existing or new laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. The market price of our shares of Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our Class A common stock has been publicly traded since November 1999. The market price for our Class A common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. We believe that the principal factors that may cause price fluctuations in our shares of Class A common stock are, but not limited to: • fluctuations in our financial results; • general conditions or developments in the media broadcasting industry and other media, and the national and regional economies; • significant sales of our common stock into and/or in the marketplace; • significant decreases in our stations’ audience ratings; • inability to implement our expansion and operating strategy; • a shortfall in revenue, gross margin, earnings or other financial results from operations or changes in analysts’ expectations; and • developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are adverse and unrelated to our operating performance. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our Class A common stock is presently quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. To maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must satisfy certain continued listing standards. On October 12, 2010, we received a written deficiency notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market advising us that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock for the previous 30 consecutive business days had been below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided an initial grace period of 180 calendar days, or until April 11, 2011, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. The Notice further provides that NASDAQ will provide written confirmation stating that we have achieved compliance with the Rule if at any time before April 11, 2011, the bid price of the our Class A common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with the Rule by April 11, 2011, NASDAQ will provide to us written notification that our Class A common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, at which time we will have an opportunity to appeal the determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel. 30 Table of Contents Failing to regain compliance with the Rule will cause our Class A common stock to be delisted. In addition, while we believe that we currently meet all other listing requirements of the NASDAQ, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market in the future. Delisting from NASDAQ would make trading our Class A common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. Without a NASDAQ listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our Class A common stock, the sale or purchase of our Class A common stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our Class A common stock would likely decline. Delisting from NASDAQ would also result in negative publicity and would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our Class A common stock as currency or the value accorded by other parties. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our Class A common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our Class A common stock in the secondary market. If our Class A common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our Class A common stock may be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, an over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that our Class A common stock, if delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, will be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the OTC Bulletin Board or the pink sheets. Current or future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock or Class B common stock (convertible into Class A common stock) by our existing stockholders or the perception that these sales may occur. These factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our Class A common stock. Our failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our Class A common stock. We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to Section 404, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This effort included documenting and testing our internal controls. As of December 31, 2010, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In future years, there can be no assurance that we will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in any future period (or if our independent registered public accounting firm was unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and possibly, the price of our Class A common stock. Risks related to our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President’s Controlling Position Raúl Alarcón, Jr., the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, has majority voting control and this control may discourage or influence certain types of transactions, including an actual or potential change of control such as a merger or sale. Raúl Alarcón, Jr., Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owns shares of common stock representing approximately 80% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Mr. Alarcón, Jr. will generally have the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the approval of any merger or consolidation and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Mr. Alarcón Jr.’s voting power may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us because any such acquisition would require his consent. 31 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that Mr. Alarcón, Jr. will maintain all or any portion of his ownership or that he would continue as an officer or director if he sold a significant part of his stock. The disposition by Mr. Alarcón, Jr. of a sufficient number of shares could result in a change in control of our company, and we cannot assure you that a change of control would not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As noted above, it could also result in a default under our credit agreement, could trigger a variety of federal, state and local regulatory consent requirements and potentially limit our utilization of net operating losses for income tax purposes. We may be influenced by the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, whose interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. Mr. Alarcón, Jr. beneficially owns approximately 80% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock. As such, he may be able to: • influence the election of our Board of Directors; • influence our management and policies; and • influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Under Delaware law, although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to SBS, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts as to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our Board of Directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, or the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Future common stock sales by Raúl Alarcón, Jr. could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. The price for our Class A common stock could substantially fluctuate if Mr. Alarcón, Jr. sells large amounts of shares in the public market, including any shares of our Class B common stock, which are automatically converted to Class A common stock when sold. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 