Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements in this report. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. A discussion about important operational risks that our business encounters can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced net losses in the past and, to the extent that we experience net losses in the future, our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. We have experienced net losses in the past and in the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a net loss available to common stockholders of $8.9 million. Failure to achieve sustained profitability may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to meet our obligations. Our inability to obtain financing in adequate amounts and on acceptable terms necessary to operate our business, repay our debt obligations or finance future acquisitions could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If U.S. economic conditions do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Revenue generated by our media broadcasting stations depends primarily upon the sale of advertising time. Our operating results have been adversely affected by the slow recovery of the U.S. economy from the most recent recession because advertising expenditures, which we believe to be largely a discretionary business expense, generally decrease as the economy slows down. The condition of the U.S. economy remains highly uncertain, with continuing high unemployment and low growth rates, and if the economy does not improve or deteriorates, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 23 We are particularly dependent on advertising revenues from specific industries, and any failure of those industries to recover could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The absence of a full recovery in the U.S. economy has caused reductions in advertising revenues from the automotive, retail, financial and other industries. We generate a greater percentage of our advertising revenue from the automotive industry than any other industry, for example, including radio advertising by local automotive dealers and television advertising by manufacturers and dealers. Advertising spending in the automotive industry remains lower than pre-recession levels, and other industries, such as the retail industry, have also not shown significant growth. Our long-term growth strategy and our long-term liquidity depend on recovery in these important industries. Even in the absence of a general recession or downturn in the economy, an individual business sector that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a downturn. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its expenditures may affect our revenue. Current uncertain economic conditions may affect our financial performance or our ability to forecast our business with accuracy. Our operations and performance depend significantly on the United States and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and their impact on purchases of advertising by our clients. We believe that this uncertain economic condition may continue in future periods, as our advertisers alter their purchasing activities in response to the new economic reality, and, among other things, our advertisers may change or scale back future purchases of advertising time. This uncertainty may affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results. It is currently unclear as to what overall effect the current economic conditions and uncertainties will continue to have on the marketplace and our future business. If we are unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for advertising or if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive, and we compete for advertising revenue with other broadcast stations, as well as other media, many operators of which have greater resources than we do. Our industry is highly competitive, and the success of our stations is primarily dependent upon their share of overall advertising revenues within their markets, especially in New York, Los Angeles and Miami. Our broadcast stations compete in their respective markets for audiences and advertising revenues with other broadcast stations of all formats, as well as with other media, such as newspapers, magazines, television, satellite radio, cable services, outdoor advertising, the Internet and direct mail. In addition, any changes in the methods used to determine ratings could result in a downward adjustment in our ratings, which could adversely affect our advertising sales in the markets in which we operate. Although we believe that each of our broadcast stations is able to compete effectively in its respective market, our stations may be unable to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues. Specifically, radio stations can change formats quickly. Any other radio station currently broadcasting could shift its format to duplicate the format of, or develop a format which is more popular than, any of our stations. If a station converts its programming to a format similar to that of one of our stations, or if one of our competitors strengthens its operations, the ratings and station operating income of our station in that market could be adversely affected. Further, we could also lose some of our on-air personalities, which may adversely affect our competitive position in those markets. In addition, other radio companies which are larger and have more resources may also enter markets in which we operate. Any of these events could cause our stations’ audience ratings, market shares and advertising revenues to decline and any adverse change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our business as a whole. A large portion of our net revenue and operating income currently comes from our New York, Los Angeles and Miami markets. Our New York, Los Angeles and Miami markets accounted for more than 60% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Therefore, any volatility in our revenues or operating income attributable to stations in these markets could have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated net revenue or operating income. A significant decline in net revenue or operating income from our stations in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Since our revenues are concentrated in these markets, an economic downturn, increased competition or another significant negative event in any of these markets could reduce our revenues and results of operations more dramatically than other companies that do not depend as much on these markets. 24 Cancellations, reductions, delays and seasonality in advertising could adversely affect our net revenues. We do not generally obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers. As a result, our advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders. Cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising time could adversely affect our net revenue, especially if we are unable to replace these purchases. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future net revenues and are relatively fixed once set. Therefore, unforeseen decreases in advertising sales could have a material adverse impact on our net revenues and operating income. In addition, we experience fluctuations in our broadcasting revenue primarily due to seasonal variations in advertising expenditures by local, regional and national advertisers, causing our net broadcasting revenues to vary throughout the year. Historically, our first calendar quarter (January through March) has generally produced the lowest net broadcasting revenue for the year because of routine post-holiday decreases in advertising expenditures. The effects of such seasonality, combined with any other changes in our broadcasting revenue, make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results. Our growth depends on successfully executing our expansion strategy. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, as a growth strategy the expansion of our media business through selective acquisitions and affiliations, primarily in the largest U.S. Hispanic markets, such as our acquisition of a television station in the greater Houston area in 2011. We cannot assure you that our growth strategy will be successful, particularly given that the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event currently precludes us from incurring additional indebtedness. Our growth strategy is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: ·the limits on our ability to acquire additional stations due to our substantial level of debt and our current inability to incur additional indebtedness resulting from the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event; ·the need to raise additional financing, which is currently precluded by the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event; ·our stock price and market conditions in the financial markets; ·the need for required regulatory approvals, including FCC and antitrust approvals; ·the challenges of managing any rapid growth; ·the difficulties of programming newly acquired stations to attract listenership or viewership; and ·general economic conditions affecting the media industry. Although we intend to pursue selective strategic acquisitions, our ability to do so will be restricted by our current inability to incur additional indebtedness as a result of the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event, the terms of our debt instruments, and our ability to raise additional funds. Additionally, our competitors, who may not be subject to such financial restrictions and who may have greater resources than we do or existing business in certain markets, may have an advantage over us in pursuing and completing strategic acquisitions that we target. Our cost-cutting measures may impact our ability to pursue our expansion strategy. In recent years, we have focused on reducing our operating expenses. This has included restructuring our existing businesses, where we have reduced our workforce and eliminated redundant facilities. Although our cost-cutting measures have successfully reduced expenses, our reduced programming expenses and workforce may make it more difficult to take advantage of opportunities for growth in the future. The success of our radio stations depends on the popularity and appeal of our content, which is difficult to predict. We format the programming of each of our radio stations to capture a substantial share of the U.S. Hispanic audience in their respective markets. The U.S. Hispanic population is diverse, consisting of numerous identifiable groups from many different countries of origin and each with its own musical and cultural heritage. Various factors could impact the popularity of our content, including shifts in population, station listenership, demographics, audience tastes and fluctuations in preferred advertising media. The success of our radio stations depends on our ability to consistently create, acquire, market and broadcast content that meets the changing preferences of this broad consumer market. If we are not successful at maintaining and growing the popularity of our content, our operating results may be adversely affected. 25 The success of our television operation depends upon our ability to attract viewers and advertisers to our broadcast television operation. Although we recorded positive consolidated operating income for our television segment in 2013 under our indenture governing our Notes, our television segment was not profitable per GAAP and may not achieve profitability in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract viewers and advertisers to our broadcast television operation. If we cannot attract viewers, our television operation may suffer from low ratings, which in turn may deter potential advertisers. The inability to successfully attract viewers and advertisers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results for our television operation. Television programming is a highly competitive business. Television stations compete in their respective markets for audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and larger, more established networks. As a result of this competition, our rating share may not grow, and an adverse change in our local markets could have a material adverse impact on the revenue of our television operation. The success of the television operation is largely dependent on certain factors, such as the extent of distribution of the developed programming, the ability to attract viewers and advertisers, the ability to acquire programming, and the market and advertiser acceptance of our programming. We may not be successful in our initiatives, and our initiatives may fail to generate revenues and may ultimately be unprofitable. If we do not record positive consolidated station operating income for our television segment for any applicable period, beginning on April 15, 2013, additional interest will be payable on our 12.5% senior secured notes due 2017 in cash at a rate of 2.00% per annum (the “Additional Interest”) on (i) the original principal amount of our 12.5% senior secured notes due 2017 plus (ii) any amount of Additional Interest payable but unpaid in any prior interest period. Please see “Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Preferred Stock” for further discussion related to our 12.5% senior secured notes due 2017. We recorded positive consolidated station operating income for our television segment for the four fiscal quarter period ended on December 31, 2013. The loss of distribution agreements could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our MegaTV television operation has entered into station distribution agreements that allow us to serve markets representing over 3.5 million Hispanic households. One of these agreements expires within the next year if not renewed. If our distribution agreements are terminated or not extended, our ability to reach our viewers and receive licensing fees may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we expect to renew these agreements or make other arrangements to reach viewers, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. We receive advertising inventory from our affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a specified time period or commercials inserted by MegaTV into its programming. In addition, primarily with respect to Multichannel Video Programming Distributors, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of distribution agreements of our MegaTV television operation could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through the reduction of advertising revenue and fees. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the Internet to originate and/or distribute our station and network programs and commercials to affiliates. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audiences and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Increased use by consumers of new technologies may decrease viewership of advertisements, result in decreased advertising revenues for our television stations, and have a negative effect on our business. Technology in the broadcast, entertainment and Internet industries is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of content delivery, as well as certain changes in consumer or advertiser behavior driven by changes in these or other technologies and methods of delivery, could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, satellite radio, video games, DVD players and other personal video and audio systems, wireless devices, text messaging, streaming video, and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view or listen to television or radio programs on a time-delayed basis, and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements altogether, such as DVRs (e.g., TiVo), Aereo, the Dish Network Hopper and portable digital devices, may cause changes in consumer 26 behavior that could affect the perceived attractiveness of our services to advertisers, and could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. In addition, further increases in the use of portable digital devices which allow users to view or listen to content of their own choosing, in their own time, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect our advertising revenue and our results of operations. The entry by certain telecommunications companies into the video services delivery market, and the launch of over-the-top providers that deliver programming to viewers over the Internet has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive demand for programming. Other cable providers and direct-to-home satellite operators are developing new video compression technologies that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating such channels and potentially leading to increased competition for viewers in some of our markets. More television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. Our ability to adapt to changes in technology on a timely and effective basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes may affect our business prospects and results of operations. We must be able to respond to rapidly changing technology, services and standards which characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. For example, the FCC has implemented new technologies in the broadcast industry, including satellite and terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting and the standardization of available technologies that significantly enhance the sound quality of AM and FM broadcasts. In some cases, our ability to compete will be dependent on our acquisition of new technologies and our provision of new services, and we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire those new technologies or provide those new services. In other cases, the introduction of new technologies and services could increase competition and have an adverse effect on our revenue. Recent new media technologies and evolving services include the following: ·satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in a satellite radio service with multichannel programming and enhanced sound quality; ·audio programming by cable television operators, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications and wireless systems, Internet content providers, internet radio stations and other digital audio broadcast formats; ·new, diverse and evolving forms of video and audio program distribution offered through the Internet; ·direct satellite broadcast television companies that supply subscribers with several high quality music channels; ·the introduction of in-band on-channel digital radio provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; ·portable digital devices and systems that permit users to listen to programming on a time-delayed basis and to fast-forward through programming and/or advertisements; ·the provision of digital audio and video content for listening and/or viewing on the Internet and/or available for downloading or streaming to portable devices; and ·low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast stations in markets where we have stations. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies may have on the broadcasting industry or on our business. To compete with services using new technologies, we may be required to make significant investments to adopt those technologies, acquire companies that use those technologies or upgrade our own services to compete effectively. We may be unable to make these investments, or we may incur significant expenditures and still fail to achieve the competitive gains we seek. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on the execution of our strategy. Our business is dependent upon the performance of key employees, on-air talent and program hosts. Cost increases in the retention of such employees may adversely affect our profits. Our business depends upon the efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees, including on-air talent, and our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. We employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts with significant loyal audiences in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, these key on-air personalities and program hosts may not remain with us or may not retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense, and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air 27 talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate ratings and revenues. The loss of any of these executive officers and key employees, particularly Raúl Alarcón, Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our personnel. We produce and acquire programming and content and incur costs for all types of creative talent, including on-air talent, programming and production personnel. An increase in the costs of such programming and content or in the costs for creative talent may lead to decreased profitability. Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives can cause our net income or net loss to fluctuate significantly. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $355.9 million of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $32.8 million and FCC broadcast licenses of $323.1 million on our consolidated balance sheet. These unamortized intangible assets represented approximately 77% of our total assets. Accounting standards require that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as FCC broadcast licenses, cease to be amortized. Accounting standards require that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or FCC broadcast licenses exceeds their fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value and will recognize an impairment loss in our results of operations. We currently account for our FCC broadcast licenses as indefinite-lived assets. In the event we are no longer able to conclude that our FCC broadcast licenses have indefinite lives, we may be required to amortize such licenses. The amortization of our FCC broadcast licenses would affect our earnings and earnings per share. The impairment tests require us to make estimates of the fair value of our intangible assets, which is determined by using a discounted cash flow methodology. Since a number of factors may influence the fair value of our intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. From time to time in the past, we have incurred significant impairment charges, which have materially adversely affected our results of operations. Any future impairments would result in our recognizing a corresponding operating loss, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Piracy of our programming and other content, including digital and internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of our programming and other content and adversely affect our business and profitability. Piracy of programming is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of our content. We believe that the proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products, particularly in South America, has an adverse effect on our business and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our media content. Damage to our brands or reputation could adversely affect our company. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers for our broadcast stations depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of our company, our ability to produce attractive programming, the strength of our audience and our integrity. Damage to our brands or reputation or negative publicity or perceptions about us, either through infringement of our brands, intellectual property or otherwise, could cause a loss of consumer or advertiser confidence in our company and may adversely affect our financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees. In recent years, a number of employers, including us, have been subject to lawsuits, including alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, wage-hour and employment discrimination matters, class action lawsuits, and a number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. We could also face potential liability if we are found to have misclassified certain employees as exempt from the overtime requirements of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act and state labor laws, or for having classified certain personnel as contractors and not as employees under applicable law. We have had and now have some employment-related administrative proceedings and lawsuits pending against us, although none involving class allegations and none that we believe to be material. 28 Raúl Alarcón, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, has majority voting control and this control may discourage or influence certain types of transactions or strategic initiatives. Raúl Alarcón, Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owns shares of common stock representing approximately 83% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result, Mr. Alarcón generally has the ability to control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire Board of Directors, mergers and acquisitions and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Mr. Alarcón’s voting power may allow him to have a greater influence on our corporate strategy. We cannot assure you that Mr. Alarcón will maintain all or any portion of his ownership or that he would continue as an officer or director if he sold a significant part of his stock. Further, the disposition by Mr. Alarcón of a sufficient number of shares could result in a change in control of our company, which could trigger a variety of federal, state and local regulatory consent requirements and potentially limit our utilization of net operating losses for income tax purposes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because Mr. Alarcón owns a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing rules. As a result, we qualify for, and rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a “controlled company,” we are exempt from the requirements to have (i) a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors, (ii) compensation and nominating committees composed solely of independent directors, (iii) the compensation of executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors, and (iv) director nominees selected or recommended to the Board of Directors for selection, either by a majority of the independent directors, or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We intend to use these exemptions, and as a result, do not currently have a nominating committee. However, we do have a Board of Directors composed of a majority of independent directors and an audit committee and compensation committee composed solely of independent directors. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Delisting from NASDAQ would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. Without a NASDAQ listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. In addition to having an adverse effect on the liquidity of our Class A common stock, delisting from NASDAQ would also result in negative publicity and would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our Class A common stock as currency or the value accorded by other parties. Any impact on our ability to raise equity capital could adversely affect our ability to execute our long-term business strategy, including any efforts to use equity capital to finance selective acquisitions, reduce our indebtedness or fund our operations. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Matters Changes in U.S. communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, we are required to obtain, and periodically renew, licenses from the FCC to operate our radio and television stations. The FCC may not approve our future renewal applications, or it may approve them for less than the full term or subject to conditions or qualifications. The FCC broadcasting license for our flagship WSKQ-FM station, which accounts for a material portion of our net revenue, expired on June 1, 2006. The FCC has yet to take action on our application to renew this license, which is opposed by several parties who allege, among other things, that WSKQ-FM has broadcast indecent material. In February 2014, license renewal applications for stations located in New York were due and we filed another application to renew these licenses. Although the station continues to operate under its expired license pursuant to FCC rules, until the FCC takes action on the renewal applications (the FCC grants renewal of broadcast licenses in the great majority of cases), we cannot be assured that the license will be renewed on favorable terms or at all. The nonrenewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses (including the license for our WSKQ-FM station) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 29 We must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our television and radio stations and our television network. FCC regulations limit the number of television and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the household reach of television stations nationwide. Under the Communications Act, every three years each television broadcast station is required to elect to exercise the right, either to require cable television system and Direct Broadcast Satellite (“DBS”) operators in its local market to carry its signal (must carry), or to prohibit carriage or condition it upon payment of a fee or other consideration. These “must carry” rights are not absolute, and under some circumstances, a cable system or DBS operator may be entitled not to carry a given station. The FCC’s current rules require cable and DBS operators to carry only one channel of the digital signal of our television stations, despite the capability of digital broadcasters to broadcast multiple program streams within one station’s digital allotment. Cable systems and DBS operators may not continue to carry our owned or affiliated television broadcast stations. The failure of a cable system or DBS operator to carry one of our owned or affiliated television stations could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of our radio and television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require radio and television broadcast stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions or reductions in rates on political advertising may adversely affect our advertising revenues. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to examine and potentially regulate more closely embedded advertising, such as product placement and product integration. Enhanced restrictions affecting these means of delivering advertising messages may adversely affect our advertising revenues. The FCC is currently engaged in a review of its media ownership rules. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by us. We are unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on our operations. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations and potentially adversely impact our ability to compete. In February 2012, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that, among other things, grants the FCC authority to conduct incentive auctions to recapture certain spectrum currently used by television broadcasters and repurpose it for other uses. In October 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to begin to develop the rules and procedures to implement incentive auctions authorized by Congress. That rulemaking process remains ongoing. The incentive auction process would have three components. First, the FCC would conduct a reverse auction by which each television broadcaster may choose to retain its rights to a 6 MHz channel of spectrum or volunteer, in return for payment, to relinquish all of the station’s spectrum by surrendering its license; relinquish the right to some of its spectrum and thereafter share spectrum with another station; or modify its UHF channel license to a VHF channel license. Second, in order to accommodate the spectrum reallocated to new users, the FCC will “repack” the remaining television broadcast spectrum, which may require certain television stations that did not participate in the reverse auction to modify their transmission facilities, including requiring such stations to operate on different channels. In addition, Congress directed the FCC, when repacking television broadcast spectrum, to make reasonable efforts to preserve a station’s coverage area and population served. Also, the FCC is prohibited from requiring a station to move involuntarily from the UHF band to the VHF band or from the high VHF band to the low VHF band. The statute does not protect low power stations in the repacking process. Third, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the relinquished spectrum to new users. The FCC must complete the reverse auction and the forward auction by September 30, 2022, and has announced that as of now it intends to conduct the auction during 2015. The outcome of the incentive auction and repacking of broadcast television spectrum, or the impact of such items on our business, cannot be predicted. Proposed legislation would require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to record labels and recording artists. Legislation was introduced in past Congressional sessions that would require radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. The legislation failed to pass and has been reintroduced in the current Congress. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music, Inc., the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers and SESAC, Inc. The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. In addition, radio and recording industry representatives have entered into negotiations that may result in an agreement to resolve the performance fee issue. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, whether industry groups will enter into an agreement with respect to fees, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial condition. 30 The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FCC’s rules and regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent/profane material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously pursues its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened on more than one occasion to initiate license revocation or license renewal proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a “serious” indecency violation. The FCC has substantially increased its monetary penalties for violations of these regulations pursuant to law enacted in 2006 that provides the FCC with authority to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident or profane utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3.0 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In July 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (“Second Circuit”) issued a decision in which it vacated the FCC’s indecency policy as unconstitutional. In June 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision which held that the FCC could not fine ABC and Fox for the specific broadcasts at issue in the case because the FCC had not provided them with sufficient notice of its intent to issue fines for the use of fleeting expletives. However, the Court did not make any substantive ruling regarding the FCC’s indecency standards. In April 2013, the FCC requested comments on its indecency policy, including whether it should ban the use of fleeting expletives or whether it should only impose fines for broadcasts that involve repeated and deliberate use of expletives. The FCC has not issued any decisions regarding indecency enforcement since the Supreme Court’s decision was issued, although it has advised that it will continue to pursue enforcement actions in egregious cases while it conducts its review of indecency policies generally. We cannot predict whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme against the broadcast industry generally may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. A number of inquiries or proceedings regarding alleged violations of the FCC’s indecency policy by our stations are currently pending, including a motion in opposition to the renewal of one of our material broadcast licenses. In addition, we have in the past been the subject and may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of allegedly indecent or obscene material. To the extent that these pending inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. We also face increased potential costs in the form of fines for indecency violations, and we cannot predict whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. Our businesses depend upon licenses issued by the FCC, and if any of those licenses were not renewed or we were to be out of compliance with FCC regulations and policies, our business may be materially impaired. Our businesses depend upon maintaining their broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are issued currently for a maximum term of eight years and are subject to renewal thereafter. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. A few of our stations are operating on expired licenses while their applications for renewal remain pending, and certain of our other broadcast licenses will expire and require renewal in the near future. We cannot be certain that our future renewal applications will be approved or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations or result in material impairments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our FCC licenses are not renewed, we could be prevented from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Further, the FCC has a general policy restricting the transferability of a station license while a renewal application for that station is pending, and we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies governing the ownership and operation of our stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio and television stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on their operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time, and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 There is significant uncertainty regarding the FCC’s media ownership rules, and such rules could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own (directly or by attribution) in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain in flux and subject to further agency and court proceedings. On July 7, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld the FCC’s last media ownership review order, to the extent that the FCC retained most of its media ownership rules, and vacated the portion of that order that sought to relax restrictions on common ownership of broadcast stations and daily newspapers. In December 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) as part of its 2010 quadrennial review of its media ownership rules. The NPRM proposes to leave in place most of the current rules but does tentatively propose to revise the prohibition against owning a daily newspaper and a broadcast station in the largest markets and proposes to eliminate the radio-television cross-ownership rule, which restricts the number of television and radio stations an entity can own in a market. In addition to the FCC media ownership rules, the outside media interests of our officers and directors could limit our ability to acquire stations. The filing of petitions or complaints against us or any of our license-holding subsidiaries, or any FCC license from which we are acquiring a station, could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on, its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. In 2013, however, the FCC issued a declaratory ruling that notwithstanding its past practices it will consider on a case-by-case basis requests for approval of acquisitions by aliens of in excess of 25% of the stock of the parent of a broadcast licensee. In acting upon such a request, the FCC will coordinate with Executive Branch agencies on national security, law enforcement, foreign policy, and trade policy issues. In addition, where proposed acquisitions might result in local radio advertising revenue concentration, the Department of Justice and/or the Federal Trade Commission could undertake their own reviews and could attempt to block or place restrictions or conditions on such transactions. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of our internet business. A variety of federal and state laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that our internet business uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are also now pending at both the federal and state level in the United States. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of our internet business. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with our own policies and procedures could result in significant liabilities, including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Preferred Stock As a result of our not having sufficient funds legally available to repurchase our Series B preferred stock upon request on October 15, 2013, a Voting Rights Triggering Event occurred and our business is subject to significant restrictions. As a result of the Voting Rights Triggering Event, the holders of the Series B preferred stock have the right to elect two members to our Board of Directors. The right to elect the two new directors may be exercised initially either at a special meeting of the holders of Series B preferred stock or at any annual meeting of the stockholders held for the purpose of electing directors. On March 11, 2014, the Company received a request from LBHI, stating that it held more than 10% of the Series B preferred stock, and requesting that the Company call a special meeting of the preferred Series B stockholders, for the purpose of electing two directors. Until the Voting Rights Triggering Event is remedied or waived, our business is subject to significant restrictions, unless such restrictions are waived or amended or our Series B preferred stock are refinanced on different terms. Waiving or amending the restrictions described below would require the approval of at least a majority of the shares of the then-outstanding Series B preferred stock and, in certain instances, may require the consent of each holder of Series B preferred stock affected. Under these restrictions, among other things: ·we are unable to incur any indebtedness, even in the ordinary course of our business; ·our ability to undertake investments or make restricted payments is significantly limited; and ·we are unable to undertake certain mergers and consolidations. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Voting Rights Triggering Event shall continue until (i) all dividends in arrears shall have been paid in full and (ii) all other failures, breaches or defaults giving rise to such Voting Rights Triggering Event are remedied or waived by the holders of at least a majority of the shares of the then outstanding Series B preferred stock. We do not currently have sufficient funds legally available to be able to satisfy the conditions for terminating the Voting Rights Triggering Event. 32 Directors elected by the holders of Series B preferred stock may not represent all stockholders. If the holders of the Series B preferred stock elect two directors to the Board of Directors, those newly-elected directors may act primarily in the interests of the holders of the Series B preferred stock and not in the interest of all stockholders. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our obligations under our Series B preferred stock and our substantial indebtedness under our 12.5% senior secured notes due 2017 could adversely affect our financial condition. Our consolidated debt is substantial and we are highly leveraged, which could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our ability to grow and compete. In addition, the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event will hamper our operations. The occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event and our high level of debt and long-term liabilities could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including the following: ·making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt and liabilities; ·limiting and/or precluding our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; ·requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; ·increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ·limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; and ·placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness and to pay the liquidation preference and cash dividend obligations under our Series B preferred stock, respectively, is uncertain. Our future debt service obligations could exceed the amount of our available cash. In addition, the Indenture that governs the Notes and the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Upon a change of control, we must offer to repurchase all or a portion of our Series B preferred stock, in cash, at a premium to its liquidation value. The terms of our Series B preferred stock require us, in the event of a change of control, to offer to repurchase all or a portion of a holder’s shares at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the liquidation preference of the shares, plus an amount in cash equal to all accumulated and unpaid dividends on those shares up to but excluding the date of repurchase. We do not currently have and we may not have in the future sufficient funds legally available to make such repurchases. As a result of our not having sufficient funds legally available to repurchase our Series B preferred stock upon request on October 15, 2013, our preferred stockholders have commenced legal action to require us to make such repurchase. Since we did not have sufficient funds legally available to repurchase our Series B preferred stock upon request in 2013, our Series B preferred stockholders have commenced legal action to try to require us to do so. We can only make such repurchases out of legally available funds. The determination of whether we have legally available funds to effect a repurchase is made by our Board of Directors based on all available information as of such time, including management’s recommendation, the recommendations of third party advisors, the facts and circumstances, contractual commitments and restrictions at that time, including the covenants under the Indenture governing the Notes, and pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law. We have strong arguments against any claim (whether relating to the legal availability of funds or otherwise) that the holders of the Series B preferred stock have brought, but we cannot predict with certainty how any given court might rule. Even if challenges by the holders of the Series B preferred stock are unsuccessful, the litigation itself is likely to be costly, and will divert management’s attention from our ongoing business.We are prevented by the covenants in our Series B preferred stock from refinancing any debt instruments. We are currently prohibited under the terms of our Series B preferred stock from incurring any indebtedness. If the Voting Rights Triggering Event is continuing at the time that our other indebtedness matures, we would be prohibited by the terms of the Series B preferred stock from refinancing such other indebtedness. Under those circumstances, if we were unable to obtain a waiver or 33 amendment to the Series B preferred stock or to refinance the Series B preferred stock on different terms, we might not be able to satisfy our obligations with respect to such other indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the Notes and our liabilities under our Series B preferred stock, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and Series B preferred stock, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations, including the Notes and our obligations under our Series B preferred stock, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness and to pay our obligations under our Series B preferred stock. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and our obligations under our Series B preferred stock, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Any such disposition of assets may also be subject to FCC approval, which we may not be able to obtain. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or our obligations with respect to our Series B preferred stock. The indenture that governs the Notes restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness or obligations when they become due. Accordingly, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due or to meet our obligations with respect to our Series B preferred stock. In addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, even though payments of principal and interest on the notes are permitted. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indenture that governs the Notes will limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations. The terms of the Indenture that governs the Notes, the terms of the Series B preferred stock and the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or take certain actions. The terms of our Series B preferred stock and the Indenture that governs the Notes contain restrictive covenants that impose significant restrictions on us and may limit, or prevent (in the case of the Voting Rights Triggering Event), our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to: ·incur additional indebtedness (prohibited during the continuation of a Voting Rights Triggering Event); ·pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; ·prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; ·make loans and investments; ·sell assets; ·incur liens; ·enter into transactions with affiliates; ·alter the businesses we conduct; ·enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and ·consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 34 As a result of these restrictions, we may be: ·limited in how we conduct our business; ·unable to satisfy our current obligations; ·unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or ·unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities, including acquisition opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The restrictions contained in the terms of our Series B preferred stock and in the Notes are subject to a number of exceptions, but even with these exceptions, our ability to take certain actions is significantly limited. In addition, many of the exceptions to the restrictions contained in the terms of our Series B preferred stock are unavailable due to the occurrence of the Voting Rights Triggering Event, as described above under “As a result of our not having sufficient funds legally available to repurchase our Series B preferred stock upon request on October 15, 2013, a Voting Rights Triggering Event occurred and our business is subject to significant restrictions.” Further, a breach of the covenants under the Indenture that governs the Notes could result in an event of default under the Indenture. Such default may allow the noteholders to accelerate the Notes and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our noteholders accelerate the repayment of our debt, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. The interest rate on the Notes will increase if the company does not comply with certain financial or operational covenants in the Indenture governing the Notes. Beginning on April 15, 2013, additional interest will be payable in cash at a rate of 2.00% per annum (the “Additional Interest”) on (i) the original principal amount of the Notes plus (ii) any amount of Additional Interest payable but unpaid in any prior interest period, unless (a) we have recorded positive consolidated station operating income for our television segment or (b) our secured leverage ratio on a consolidated basis is less than 4.75 to 1.00. The Additional Interest service obligations would reduce the amount of cash we have available for our operations and to satisfy our other obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Under the terms of the Notes, we have the right to accrue the Additional Interest instead of paying such Additional Interest in cash. If we do not pay the Additional Interest in cash, the holders of the Series B preferred stock might claim that such accrual of interest is an incurrence of indebtedness not permitted by the Certificate of Designations. In such case, the holders of the Series B preferred stock may commence legal action to seek damages from us. We would have strong arguments against any such claim. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 