ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report on Form 10-K. An investment in our common stock is very risky. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. When used in these risk factors, the terms "we" or "our" refer to Mymetics Corporation and its subsidiaries. We are a company engaged exclusively in research and development activities, focusing primarily on human biology and medicine. Our strategy was crafted in part to minimize the risks usually associated with clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing, which we would expect to be borne by our future partner(s). WE HISTORICALLY HAVE LOST MONEY, EXPECT LOSSES TO CONTINUE FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE AND MAY NEVER ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY. We historically have lost money. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we sustained net losses of approximately E9,294,000. In the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we sustained net losses of approximately E1,585,000 and E1,939,000, respectively. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately E24,956,000. Total cash disbursed since 1990 for operating activities, including research and development, is E16,894,000. The amount of these losses may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors: - - the timing and cost of product development; - - the progress and cost of preclinical and clinical development programs; - - the timing and cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; - - the timing and cost of sales and marketing activities for future products; and - - the costs of pending and any future litigation of which we may be subject. We currently are engaged in research and development activities and do not have any commercially marketable products. The product research and development process requires significant capital expenditures, and we do not have any other sources of revenue to off-set such expenditures. Accordingly, we expect to generate additional operating losses at least until such time as we are able to generate significant revenues. To become profitable, we will need to generate revenues to off-set our operating costs, including our general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or, if achieved, sustain our revenue or profit objectives, and our losses may increase in the future, and, ultimately, we may have to cease operations. In order to generate new and significant revenues, we must successfully develop and commercialize our proposed products or enter into collaborative agreements with others who can successfully develop and commercialize them. Our business plan is predicated on commercializing our products in collaboration with others. Even if our proposed products are commercially introduced, they may never achieve market acceptance and we may never generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. 12 WE NEED TO RAISE SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO RAISE SUCH FUNDS ON A TIMELY BASIS AND ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS. Although we have restructured our existing debt as discussed below, we have not alleviated our working capital needs. We need to address our working capital needs by the end of June 2008 to allow us to continue devoting our efforts to development of the business instead of raising needed capital. If we must devote a substantial amount of time to raising capital, it will delay our ability to achieve our business plan within the time frames that we now expect, which could increase the amount of capital we need and could threaten the success of our business if competitors are able to produce an effective vaccine to the market ahead of us. In addition, the amount of time expended by our management on fund raising distracts them from concentrating on our business affairs. OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OR PREDICT OUR FUTURE BUSINESS PROSPECTS. We have no operating history, and our operating results are impossible to predict because we have not begun selling any products. We are in the development stage, and our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business enterprise, including: - - the absence of an operating history; - - the lack of commercialized products; - - insufficient capital; - - expected substantial and continual losses for the foreseeable future; - - limited experience in dealing with regulatory issues; - - limited marketing experience; - - an expected reliance on third parties for the commercialization of our proposed products; - - a competitive environment characterized by numerous, well-established and well-capitalized competitors; - - uncertain market acceptance of our proposed products; and - - reliance on key personnel. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications, and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of a new business, the development of new technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we will operate. See "Description of the Business". Because we are subject to these risks, you may have a difficult time evaluating our business and your investment in our company. OUR PROPOSED VACCINES ARE IN THE DEVELOPMENT STAGES AND WILL LIKELY NOT BE COMMERCIALLY INTRODUCED BEFORE 2017, IF AT ALL. Our proposed key products still are in the development stage and will require further development, preclinical and clinical testing and investment prior to commercialization in the United States and abroad. See "Description of the Business". While we are pleased about the progress made to date on these products, we cannot be sure that these products in development will: - - be successfully developed; - - prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials; - - meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; 13 - - demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; - - be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; - - obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or - - be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. We do not intend to undertake any product development beyond Phase II human clinical trials (i.e., Phase III clinical studies) or be responsible for obtaining regulatory approval or marketing the products. Nevertheless, even if we are successful in selling or licensing our products to another pharmaceutical company, it is likely that any revenues we may receive in connection with those arrangements will depend upon other companies' sales, which will, in turn, depend upon the factors stated above. THE LOSS OF OUR PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS WOULD DIMINISH THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO ACHIEVE ITS BUSINESS PLAN. Messrs. Rochet and Luebke have played an important role in financing, achievement of strategic goals and administration of the Company. In addition, Dr. Fleury has been following, and associated with, our AIDS vaccine project since 1998 and we believe that replacing him as CSO on time for successfully prosecuting our pending patent applications would be extremely difficult. Accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals might prevent the Company from achieving its business plan. THE LOSS OF KEY SCIENTIFIC OR INDUSTRIAL PARTNERS WOULD DIMINISH THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO ACHIEVE ITS BUSINESS PLAN. Certain components or know-how obtained from partners such as Protein eXpert S.A., supplier of GMP grade engineered mutated gp41 protein, or Pevion Biotech Ltd., supplier and integrator of Virosomes, are key components of our vaccines currently under development. Accordingly, the loss of any of these components or know-how might prevent the Company from achieving its business plan. OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS PREDICATED ON OUR BELIEF THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO ENGAGE LARGE PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES TO PARTNER WITH US IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS AND FAILURE TO DO SO WILL LIKELY MAKE THE COMPANY UNATTRACTIVE AS AN ACQUISITION TARGET. We anticipate that we will need a large pharmaceutical company to assist us with human trials and financing. See "Funding Requirements". Our failure to succeed in this endeavor will have a dramatic adverse result regarding our financial needs and ability to successfully sell any products that we develop. IF WE FAIL TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL TO COMMERCIALLY MANUFACTURE OR SELL ANY OF OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS, OR IF APPROVAL IS DELAYED OR WITHDRAWN, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO GENERATE REVENUE FROM THE SALE OF OUR PRODUCTS. We must obtain regulatory approval to sell any of our products in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we must obtain the approval of the FDA for each product or drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our proposed products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our management's credibility, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity would be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. Even after obtaining regulatory approval, we may be restricted or prohibited 14 from marketing or manufacturing a product if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. The FDA may also require us to commit to perform lengthy post-approval studies, for which we would have to expend significant additional resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we have conducted pre-clinical studies, costly and lengthy human clinical trials are required to obtain regulatory approval to market our proposed vaccine, and the results of the trials are highly uncertain. In addition, the number of pre-clinical studies and human clinical trials that the FDA requires varies depending on the product, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular product. Accordingly, we may need to perform additional pre-clinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin human clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our products. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in pre-clinical studies on animals, the results in humans may be different. After we have conducted pre-clinical studies in animals, we must demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for use on the target human patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. The data obtained from pre-clinical and human clinical testing are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We face the risk that the results of our clinical trials in later phases of clinical trials may be inconsistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal or human testing. Adverse or inconclusive human clinical results would prevent us from filing for regulatory approval of our products. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our human clinical trials include: - - slow patient enrollment; - - timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; - - longer trial time than foreseen to demonstrate efficacy or safety; - - adverse medical events or side effects in immunized patients; and - - lack of effectiveness of the vaccines being tested. Delays in our clinical trials could allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products and thus can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. EVEN IF OUR PROPOSED PRODUCTS RECEIVE EEC AND FDA APPROVAL, THEY MAY NOT ACHIEVE EXPECTED LEVELS OF MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND OPERATING RESULTS AND COULD CAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Even if we are able to obtain required regulatory approvals for our proposed products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance by physicians and patients. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, including: - - the availability of alternative products from competitors; - - the price of our products relative to that of our competitors; - - the timing of our market entry; and - - the ability to market our products effectively. Some of these factors are not within our control. Our proposed products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, 15 these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE AS EFFECTIVELY. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of other reasons: - - Competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us or may claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore we cannot use our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also have our patents reexamined by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. - - We are in the development stage and are in the process of developing proposed products. Even if we receive a patent, it may not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our proposed products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our proposed product. - - Enforcing patents is expensive and may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. - - We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. It also is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors resulting in a loss of protection. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. CLAIMS BY OTHERS THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE THEIR PATENTS OR OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent 16 applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: - - result in costly litigation; - - divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; - - cause product development delays; - - require us to develop non-infringing technology; or - - require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry often have been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. WE HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR BYLAWS THAT MAY DISCOURAGE A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Our bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions - - limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; - - provide for a staggered board; - - provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal the bylaws; and - - establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 