ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NitroMed and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to our Business Our business is substantially dependent on the commercial success of BiDil, and if sales of BiDil do not increase our business will be materially harmed and our stock price will decline. On June 23, 2005, the FDA approved BiDil for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified black patients as an adjunct to current standard therapy. We launched BiDil in July 2005 and therefore have only recently begun to receive revenue from sales of BiDil. BiDil is currently our only commercial product, and we expect that it will account for all of our product sales and substantially all of our total revenues for the next several years. We face a number of significant risks relating to our ability to successfully commercialize BiDil, including risks relating to: our ability to successfully secure preferable reimbursement treatment from government and third-party insurers for BiDil; our ability to effectively and efficiently transition our contract field sales force to NitroMed and our ability to continue to increase the productivity of our sales force; our ability to effectively develop and/or contract for adequate marketing and manufacturing capabilities; our ability to gain market acceptance of BiDil as safe, effective and medically necessary; our ability to maintain the necessary patent protection, licenses and regulatory 22 approvals required to market and sell BiDil; the availability of substantial cash to fund our BiDil commercialization plans; competitive factors, including the possibility of physicians prescribing the two lower cost generic drugs that compose BiDil itself as a substitute for BiDil, and adverse effects on pricing or reimbursement resulting from the possibility of this generic substitution; and the various other factors discussed in detail throughout this section titled “Risk Factors.” In order for us to successfully commercialize BiDil, our sales of BiDil must increase significantly from their current levels. If we fail to significantly increase BiDil sales, our near-term ability to generate product revenue, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired, and the value of an investment in our stock will decline. If we do not successfully market and sell BiDil or our other product candidates, either directly or through third parties, our future revenue will be limited. We currently have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have launched BiDil in the United States ourselves, using a contract sales force. We transitioned to the use of a smaller sales force during the first quarter of 2006, and we intend to internalize this sales force by the third quarter of 2006. This transition could adversely affect our marketing of BiDil, and any adverse effect on BiDil sales will depress the value of our stock. In the future, we may also seek to market other products ourselves which are not already subject to marketing agreements and where we believe the target physician market can be effectively reached by the sales force we have established. In order to develop our internal sales force or to contract for sales and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of money and management resources. For BiDil and any other product candidates for which we decide to perform the sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including: · we may not be able to effectively or efficiently transition our contract sales force to NitroMed or to attract, build and retain a significant and qualified marketing or sales force; · the cost of establishing a marketing and sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product or combination of products; and · our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. For potential future products with larger target physician markets, we plan to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties. We may not be able to successfully enter into sales, marketing and/or distribution agreements with third parties in the future, on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. Our future revenues for any products for which we rely on third-party sales, marketing and distribution support will depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. Physicians, payors and patients may not be receptive to BiDil or our other product candidates, if approved, which could prevent us from achieving and maintaining profitability. We currently market BiDil only in the United States. Key participants in the U.S. pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, payors and patients, may not accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on ethnicity. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to convince the medical community, third-party payors and patients to accept and use BiDil. Our business is substantially dependent on market acceptance of BiDil. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of BiDil include: · the availability of favorable government and third-party payor reimbursement; · the timing of our receipt of marketing approval, if any, for next-generation BiDil products, such as BiDil XR and BiDil Combination products, or for any expansion of our current label for BiDil, such as extended product dating or inclusion of new data; 23 · the success of our promotional programs; · the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals outside the U.S., the terms of any non-U.S. approval (including labeling requirements and/or limitations), and the countries in which approvals are obtained, if any; · the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of BiDil; and · the ability to produce BiDil at a competitive price. We will require substantial additional cash to fund our operating plan, including commercializing BiDil, and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. We have used and will continue to require substantial funds to sell, market and manufacture BiDil, which was commercially launched in July 2005, to conduct research and development, including pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, and to market and manufacture any future products that are approved for commercial sale. In particular, we expect that we will incur significant expenses during 2006 and beyond relating to manufacturing, sales and marketing of BiDil. Moreover, we may incur significant additional expenditures to conduct clinical testing of our proprietary nitric oxide-enhancing cardiovascular agent and pre-clinical testing of our early-stage development programs. Because the successful commercialization of BiDil, and the timing of when we might receive significant revenue from BiDil, if at all, is uncertain, and because the successful development of any other product candidates is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to commercialize BiDil and to complete research and development of our product candidates. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with the proceeds from our recent offering, will be sufficient to fund our current operating plan, including increased operating expenses in support of the launch and commercialization of BiDil, for at least the next 21 months. However, our future capital requirements, and the period in which we expect our current cash to support our operations, may vary from what we expect due to a number of factors, including the following: · the cost of successfully commercializing BiDil; · the timing, receipt and amount of revenue from sales of BiDil; · the timing and costs of obtaining regulatory approvals, if any, for our other product candidates; · the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from collaborators; · the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our product candidates; · the resources required to successfully complete our clinical trials, if any; · continued progress in our research and development programs, as well as the magnitude of these programs; · the effect of competing technological and market developments; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · the costs related to acquiring and/or in-licensing new technologies and/or products or product candidates; and · our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative arrangements. We may be required to seek additional funding in the future and may do so through collaborative arrangements and/or public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or the 24 rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing stockholders will result. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail our marketing efforts for BiDil or one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products which we would otherwise pursue on our own. Poor performance by our contract sales organization or difficulties arising in our planned transition to an internal sales force could prevent us from achieving the significant growth we need to achieve in BiDil revenues. We have an agreement with Publicis, a contract sales organization, pursuant to which, on our behalf, Publicis has employed and trained a specialty sales force currently consisting of 144 sales representatives, to sell BiDil to our target prescriber markets. Under separate agreements, Publicis has recruited, hired and trained seven account executives and one national director, who are dedicated to NitroMed on a non-exclusive basis, who assist us in gaining formulary access for BiDil and has hired six medical science liaisons to report into our medical affairs group. Our near-term revenue for BiDil will depend heavily upon the efforts and success of Publicis. If Publicis does not devote the resources, time and training required to establish, manage and maintain an effective and qualified sales force, our ability to achieve revenue from sales of BiDil will be harmed. We intend to transition the contract sales representatives to NitroMed by the third quarter of 2006. We may not be able to effectively or efficiently complete this transition. Any failure to transition our current contract sales representatives, or election by us not to transition certain of these representatives, to NitroMed, will result in the need to recruit and train new sales representatives to cover our revised sales territories. We may not be able to successfully recruit and train new sales representatives, and the efforts to do so will result in additional costs and expenses related to our sales efforts. In addition, we have recently elected to reduce the number of sales territories in which we have sales representation. Any failure to adequately cover our current sales territories, or to cover through alternative marketing efforts the territories in which we have elected not to have sales representation, may result in reduced sales productivity and loss of revenue related to BiDil. Because we have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain, our common stock is a highly speculative investment. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1992. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $105.9 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $242.5 million. We expect that we will continue to incur substantial losses and that our cumulative losses will increase as our research, development and commercialization efforts expand. We expect that the losses that we incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. We received approval for our first product, BiDil, from the FDA on June 23, 2005, and launched commercial sales of BiDil in July 2005. All of our other product candidates, with the exception of NMI-3377 for which we expect to file an IND in the second quarter of 2006, are in research or pre-clinical development and will require significant additional testing prior to submission of any regulatory applications and, as such, are not expected to be commercially available for many years, if at all. A large portion of our expenses is fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and personnel. We have spent significant amounts to launch BiDil, and we expect to incur significant operating expenses in connection with our ongoing commercialization activities related to BiDil. We have also spent significant amounts to fund research, development and commercialization of our product candidates and to enhance our core technologies. Although we currently estimate that our operating expenses will decrease during fiscal year 2006, we will still need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. 25 We are currently unable to estimate the level of revenues that we will realize from the commercialization of BiDil or any of our other product candidates. We are therefore unable to estimate when we will achieve profitability, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. Our BiDil product revenues have been and will continue to be subject to considerable variation due to volatility in prescription volume, the manner in which we account for product sales considering product returns rates, level of purchases by individual customers and other matters related to the commercialization of this product. We have experienced and are likely to continue to experience significant revenue deferrals and product returns, as well as additional charges and expenses associated with stocking incentives, other promotional incentives, and other matters related to the launch and commercialization of this product. Significant inventory adjustments may also occur due to the 12-month shelf life of BiDil, sales forecast variances, or other factors. Any deferrals, returns or adjustments that negatively impact revenue, or our failure, for this or any other reason, to generate significant near-term revenue growth, could depress our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. The availability of lower priced generic substitutes for BiDil may adversely affect our sales of BiDil and the pricing or reimbursement we are able to obtain for BiDil. BiDil is a fixed-dosed combination of two generic drugs, which are approved and separately marketed, in dosages similar to those we include in BiDil, at prices substantially below the prices we are charging for BiDil. While neither of these two generic drugs is approved for the treatment of heart failure, as a practical matter it may be impossible for us to prevent physicians from prescribing a combination of these two, lower cost generic drugs as a substitute for prescribing BiDil. If substantial numbers of physicians prescribe the combination of these two generic drugs, rather than BiDil, we could fail to achieve the sales of BiDil necessary for successful commercialization which would severely limit our ability to generate revenue from the sales of BiDil. Our ability to generate revenue could also be limited if potential large purchasers of BiDil such as hospitals or health maintenance organizations require the substitution of these generic drugs for BiDil, or if state formularies or other government agencies or private payors that approve reimbursement for drugs require such substitution, or if the availability of these generic drugs reduces the price or reimbursement amounts we are able to achieve for BiDil. We may not have the technology internally to successfully develop BiDil XR and we may not be able to acquire such technology on favorable terms, if at all. Although we intend to pursue the development of an extended release formulation of BiDil, called BiDil XR, to be taken either once or twice a day, we do not currently have the technology internally to pursue this development on our own. The technology underlying extended release formulations of pharmaceutical products is highly proprietary and would take years and the expenditure of significant amounts of capital to develop by us. If we are unable to find extended release technology from a third party which is compatible for use with BiDil, we would be prevented from pursuing the development of BiDil XR. Even if we are able to identify compatible extended release technology, we may not be able to acquire rights to such technology on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring such rights, we may be required to forfeit certain rights to our BiDil XR product to the owner of such technology, thereby reducing our future potential revenue from commercialization of this product. 26 If the third-party manufacturer of BiDil encounters delays or difficulties in production, we may not be able to meet demand for the product, and we may lose potential revenue. We do not manufacture BiDil and have no plans to do so. We have engaged Schwarz Pharma Manufacturing, under a five-year exclusive manufacture and supply agreement solely for the three times daily immediate release dosage formulation of BiDil. Under the supply agreement, we have the right to engage a backup manufacturer but do not currently have any backup manufacturing agreement in place. The terms of the supply agreement provide that it may be terminated by either us or Schwarz Pharma under specified circumstances, including a material breach of the supply agreement by either party, the occurrence of a payment default by us, our material impairment of the manufacturing licenses we have granted to Schwarz Pharma or a failure of Schwarz Pharma to supply conforming products. In addition, either party may terminate the supply agreement in the event the FDA takes any action, the result of which is to permanently prohibit the manufacture, sale or use of the product. If we are unable to maintain a commercially reasonable manufacturing agreement for the production of BiDil with Schwarz Pharma, we may not be able to successfully commercialize BiDil and our stock price may decline. Furthermore, Schwarz Pharma may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include, but are not limited to: · difficulties with production costs and yields; · quality control and assurance; · difficulties obtaining ingredients for our products; · shortages of qualified personnel; · compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and · lack of capital funding. The number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture finished products for us on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange, qualify, and receive necessary regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for manufacturing on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these factors could increase our costs and result in our inability to effectively commercialize BiDil. Furthermore, if Schwarz Pharma or any other third-party manufacturer of BiDil fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our product, and we may lose potential revenues. The development and commercialization of our product candidates may be terminated or delayed, and the cost of development and commercialization may increase, if third parties on whom we rely to manufacture our products do not fulfill their obligations. We do not manufacture any of our product candidates and have no current plans to develop any capacity to do so in the future. In order to continue to develop product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our products, we plan to rely on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. We may not be able to secure a third-party manufacturer for our product candidates on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation of policies and procedures. Other than through contract, we do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our present or future contract manufacturers may not 27 be able to comply with cGMPs and other FDA requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us in some cases, including fines, injunctions, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product candidates, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to secure a third-party manufacturer on commercially favorable terms, or to the extent that third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fail to perform their obligations in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including: · we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of our product candidates, including BiDil XR and BiDil Combination products; · we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our product candidates, including BiDil XR and BiDil Combination products; · we may be required to cease distribution and/or recall some or all batches of our products; and · we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products or achieve profitability. We rely on a single source supplier for one of the two active ingredients in BiDil, and the loss of this supplier could prevent us from selling BiDil, which would materially harm our business. We rely on Sumitomo Corp. for our supply of hydralazine hydrochloride, one of the two active ingredients in BiDil. Sumitomo is currently the only supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride worldwide. We do not have any agreement with Sumitomo regarding the supply of hydralazine hydrochloride. If Sumitomo stops manufacturing or is unable to manufacture hydralazine hydrochloride, or if we are unable to procure hydralazine hydrochloride from Sumitomo on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue to sell BiDil on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, because Sumitomo is currently the sole supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride, Sumitomo has unilateral control over the price of hydralazine hydrochloride. Any increase in the price for hydralazine hydrochloride may reduce our gross margins and adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. If our partners and we do not obtain and maintain the regulatory approvals required to market and sell our product candidates, then our business will be unsuccessful, and the market price of our stock will substantially decline. Our partners and we will not be able to market any of our product candidates in the United States, Europe or in any other country without marketing approval from the FDA or equivalent foreign regulatory agency. The process of obtaining FDA approval of pharmaceutical products is costly and time consuming. Any new pharmaceutical product must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. The approval process is affected by such factors as: · the severity of the disease; · the quality of the regulatory submission; · the clinical efficacy and safety; · the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; · the manufacturing facility compliance; · the availability of alternative treatments; 28 · the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and · the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. The regulatory process to obtain market approval for a new drug takes many years and requires expenditures of substantial resources. We have had only limited experience in preparing applications and obtaining regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that our pharmaceutical products currently in development, or those product candidates acquired or in-licensed by us, will be approved by the FDA. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future product candidates or that FDA review or actions will not involve delays caused by the FDA’s request for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market and sale of these product candidates. If we do not receive required regulatory approval or clearance to market any of our product candidates, we will not be able to develop and commercialize these product candidates, which will affect our ability to achieve profitability and may cause the market price of our common stock to substantially decline. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed products, including BiDil, will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market our products and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any products we develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and restrictions, including the review of clinical results which are reported after our products are made commercially available, and restrictions on the indications for which we can market the product. The FDA can propose to withdraw our approval if new clinical data or experience shows that a product is not safe for use under the approved conditions of use. The FDA or we may need to send important information about our products to healthcare providers. The marketing claims we are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our marketed products are limited to those specified in any FDA approval. For example, because BiDil is specifically approved for labeling for self-identified black patients, we may not promote BiDil for use in other patient populations. For our prescription drugs, we must submit copies of our advertisements and promotional labeling, including, for example, professional journal advertisements, website pages, professional direct mailers, direct-to-consumer advertisements, convention booth panels and handouts, to the FDA at the time of initial publication or dissemination. If the FDA believes these materials or statements made by sales representatives or other Company officials promote our products for unapproved indications, the FDA could allege that our promotional activities misbrand our products. Specifically, the FDA could issue an untitled letter or warning letter, which requests, among other things, that we cease such promotional activities, including disseminating the advertisements and promotional labeling, and that we issue corrective advertisements and labeling, including sending letters to healthcare providers. The FDA also could take enforcement action including seizure of allegedly misbranded product, injunction or criminal prosecution against the Company and its officers or employees. If we repeatedly or deliberately failed to submit such advertisements and labeling to the agency, the FDA could withdraw our approvals. The FDA also monitors manufacturers’ support of continuing medical education, or CME, programs where the programs involve the manufacturers’ or a competitor’s products to ensure that manufacturers do not influence the CME content as a means of promoting their products for off label uses. In addition, the manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to produce any of our product candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. We will be required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products and make other periodic reports to the FDA. The discovery of any previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer or facility, including 29 withdrawal of the product from the market. Certain changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior FDA approval before the product as modified may be marketed. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, untitled letters, warning letters, civil penalties, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls and seizures, injunctions, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions and penalties. If we, our third-party manufacturers or our service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our products and harm our reputation. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our products successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to fewer acceptances of our products by the market. These enforcement actions include: · product seizures; · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · patient or physician notifications, including letters to healthcare professionals and corrective advertising; · withdrawal of product approvals; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; · fines; · restrictions on importation of our products; · injunctions; · debarments; · civil and criminal penalties; and · suspension of review of, or refusal to approve, pending applications. The application of our nitric oxide technology is unproven in humans and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize any products based upon this technology. A component of our strategy is to seek to improve existing medicines with our proprietary nitric oxide technology, such as any future BiDil Combination product. Our product candidates include nitric oxide enhancements of existing drugs. Thus, we are modifying compounds whose chemical and pharmacological profiles are well-documented and understood. However, many of our potential product candidates are new molecules with chemical and pharmacological profiles that differ from that of the existing drugs. These compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties shown in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. In addition, it is possible that existing drugs or newly-discovered drugs may not benefit from the application of our nitric oxide technology. If we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize drugs based upon our technology, we will not generate revenue based on these drugs, and the value of our stock will decline. If our clinical trials for any product candidates we advance into clinical testing are not successful, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize these product candidates. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, our collaborators or we will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the 30 safety and efficacy of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA or other regulatory agencies to commence or complete these clinical trials. If permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are sufficiently safe and effective to permit us to obtain marketing approvals from regulatory authorities. Moreover, positive results demonstrated in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that we complete may not be indicative of results obtained in future clinical trials. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, institutional review boards or regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials at any time if it is believed that the patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the filing for marketing approval for those product candidates with the FDA, result in a filing for a narrower indication than was originally sought or result in a decision to discontinue development of those product candidates. The successful completion of our clinical trials will depend on, among other things, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical protocol, the availability of alternative treatments, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. We may be unable to enroll the number of patients we need to complete a trial on a timely basis. Moreover, delays in planned patient enrollment for clinical trials may cause us to incur increased costs and delay commercialization. We have relied on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to supervise or monitor some or all aspects of our African American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT), and we expect to rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations for other product candidates we advance into clinical testing. In addition, we may need to rely on third parties for technology to support the development of our product candidates. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. As a result of these factors, we, or third parties on whom we rely, may not successfully begin or complete our clinical trials in the time periods we have forecasted, if at all. Moreover, if we incur costs and delays in our programs or if we do not successfully develop and commercialize our products, our future revenues may be materially impaired. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional drug candidates or approved drugs would impair our ability to grow. As part of our strategy, we intend to acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates for cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire appropriate pharmaceutical product candidates and products. Any product candidate we license or acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any products that we develop or acquire that are approved will be manufactured economically, or successfully commercialized. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition of a product or product candidate is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. 31 The expiration of the research term under our collaboration agreement with Boston Scientific has resulted in the loss of potential royalty-based revenue from the collaboration and may indicate that the development of nitric oxide-enhancing stents is not viable. In November 2001, we entered into a research, development and license agreement with Boston Scientific pursuant to which we granted Boston Scientific an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize certain of our nitric oxide-enhancing compounds for use with their stents or specialty catheters in the area of restenosis. In December 2003, we extended the research collaboration to develop nitric oxide-enhancing paclitaxel-coated stents until December 31, 2005. The research term of this agreement expired on December 31, 2005, although certain rights extend beyond this term. If we are not able to continue the development of the technology developed under this agreement, we may lose any investment made in the development of, and any potential revenue that may have resulted from, the development, sale or licensing of, nitric oxide-enhancing stents. The termination of our collaboration agreement with Merck, resulting from Merck’s decision to withdraw its COX-2 inhibitor, Vioxx, from worldwide markets, has resulted in the loss of potential milestone and royalty-based revenue from the collaboration and may indicate that the development of nitric oxide-enhancing COX-2 inhibitors is not viable. In December 2002, we entered into an exclusive, worldwide research, collaboration and licensing agreement with Merck pursuant to which we granted Merck marketing and sales rights to our technology for nitric oxide-enhancing COX-2 inhibitors. On September 30, 2004, Merck halted the phase II trial of our lead candidate in nitric oxide-enhancing COX-2 inhibitors. We and Merck terminated our collaboration agreement during November 2004, which will result in the loss of any potential milestone or royalty revenue from the sale of products that may have resulted from the collaboration as well as any research and development funding that we may have received beyond the end of the initial research term in December 2005. In April 2005, the FDA imposed several restrictions on the labeling and sale of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including COX-2 inhibitors. If the FDA imposes additional regulatory burdens for the approval of new COX-2 inhibitors, if COX-2 inhibitors continue to pose safety concerns, or if the market for COX-2 inhibitors contracts, then we may lose any investment made in the development of, and any potential revenue that may have resulted from, the development, sale or licensing of nitric oxide-enhancing COX-2 inhibitors. Any future collaborative arrangements that we seek to enter into with third parties may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Factors that may affect the success of our future collaborations include the following: · our future collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the product candidate on which they will be collaborating with us and which could affect their commitment to our future collaboration; · future reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our collaborators would reduce our revenues which would be based on a percentage of net sales by the collaborator; · our future collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; and · our future collaborators may pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect the collaborators’ commitment to us. 32 If the estimates we make and the assumptions on which we rely in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary significantly. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges taken by us and related disclosure. Such estimates and judgments include revenue recognition, the carrying value of our accounts receivables, inventory and assets, our estimates of accrued expenses and our estimates of the fair value of equity instruments granted or sold by us. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, our actual financial results may vary significantly from the estimates contained in our financial statements. For a further discussion of the estimates and judgments that we make and the critical accounting policies that affect these estimates and judgments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” above. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Rights Our patent protection for BiDil, which is a combination of two generic drugs, is limited, and we may be subject to generic substitution or competition and resulting pricing pressure. We have no composition of matter patent covering BiDil, our product for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified black patients as an adjunct to current standard therapy. BiDil is a fixed-dose combination of two generic drugs, isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride, which are approved and separately marketed, in dosages similar to those we include in BiDil, for indications other than heart failure, at prices below the prices we are charging for BiDil. We have three issued method-of-use patents, one of which covers the use of the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride to reduce the incidence of mortality associated with chronic congestive heart failure, expiring in 2007, and the others covering the treatment of heart failure in black patients, expiring in 2020. As a practical matter, we may not be able to enforce these method-of-use patents to prevent physicians from prescribing isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for the treatment of heart failure in black patients, even though neither drug is approved for such use. We also may not be able to enforce these method-of-use patents to prevent hospitals and pharmacies from supplying such patients with these generic drugs separately in lieu of BiDil. Other factors may also adversely affect our patent protection for BiDil. If we are successful in marketing BiDil, manufacturers of generic drugs will have an incentive to challenge our patent position. The combination therapy of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride for use in heart failure was developed through lengthy, publicly-sponsored clinical trials conducted during the 1980s, prior to the filing of the patent application that resulted in the 2007 patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. patent office, considered published reports on these clinical trials and concluded that they did not constitute prior art that would prevent the issuance of the 2007 patent. The U.S. patent office also considered the question of whether the 2007 patent constituted prior art with respect to the 2020 patents, and determined that the claims of the 2020 patents were non-obvious and patentable. A court considering the validity of the 2007 or 2020 patents with respect to questions of prior art might be presented with other alleged prior art or might reach conclusions different from those reached by the U.S. patent office. If the 2007 or 2020 patents were to be invalidated or if physicians were to prescribe isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for heart failure in black patients, our BiDil revenue could be significantly reduced, we could fail to recover the cost of developing BiDil and BiDil might not be a viable commercial product. 33 If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be harmed, and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, in order to prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. Because certain United States patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issued patents and patent applications for our product candidates and nitric oxide technology include claims with respect to both the composition of specific products or compounds and specific methods of using these products or compounds in therapeutic areas. In some cases, like BiDil, our only patent protection is with respect to the method of using a product or compound, and we do not have patent claims covering the underlying composition of the product or compound. Method-of-use patents may provide less protection for our product candidates and products because it may be more difficult to prove direct infringement against a pharmaceutical manufacturer or distributor once they have gained approval for an alternative indication. In addition, if any other company gains FDA approval for an indication separate from the one we are pursuing and markets a product that we expect to market under the protection of a method-of-use patent, physicians will be able to prescribe that product for use in the indication for which we have obtained approval, even though the product is not approved for such indication. As a practical matter, we may not be able to enforce our method-of-use patents against physicians prescribing products for such off-label use. Off-label use and any resulting off-label sales could make it more difficult to obtain the price we would otherwise wish to achieve for, or to successfully commercialize, our products. In addition, in those situations where we have only method-of-use patent coverage for a product candidate, it may be more difficult to find a pharmaceutical company partner to license or support development of our product candidate. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the U.S. patent office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 34 If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce our patent rights, we would incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages and/or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts. A third party may sue us for infringing on its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, our strategy of providing nitric oxide-enhancing versions of existing products could lead to more patent litigation as the markets for these existing products are very large and competitive. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. For example, we have filed an opposition in the European Patent Office, or EPO, to revoke NicOx S.A.’s European Patent No. 904 110, which we refer to as EP ’110. This patent is directed to the use of organic compounds containing a nitrate group or inorganic compounds containing a nitric oxide group to reduce the toxicity caused by certain drugs, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAID’s. The basis for our opposition, in part, is that the claims in EP ’110 are anticipated and therefore invalid if they are construed to cover a single compound chemically linked to a nitrate moiety. While we believe that the claims in EP ’110 will be invalidated, or be narrowed, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the opposition. If the EPO finds that there are valid claims in EP ’110 that cover compounds chemically linked to nitrates, we may be adversely affected in our ability to market our product candidates for reducing gastrointestinal toxicity without first obtaining a license from NicOx, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If any parties are able to successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license on unfavorable terms. Moreover, any legal action against us or our partners claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our partners to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially-acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. We in-license a significant portion of our principal proprietary technologies, and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to commercializing BiDil and developing our other product candidates. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that are necessary for our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize BiDil pursuant to a license agreement with Dr. Jay N. Cohn and some of our intellectual property rights relating to nitric oxide compounds have been obtained pursuant to license agreements with the Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Boston University. We expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence, and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the 35 license or render the license non-exclusive, which would result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. Risks Relating to our Industry If the government or third-party payors do not reimburse patients for BiDil or any of our product candidates that are approved for marketing, or do not reimburse such products at favorable levels, they might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of coverage and favorable reimbursement for the use of BiDil and any of our other product candidates that may be approved for marketing, from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors in order for patients to be reimbursed for the cost of a product, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products or at all. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely, or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. In addition, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our products. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products may cause our revenue to decline. Any failure by us to obtain reimbursement for our products, or to secure a preferred form of reimbursement that reduces costs to patients, may negatively impact market acceptance of our products and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from sales. Most private insurers, and the majority of Medicare Part D plans, cover BiDil at the Tier III level. We may not be able to obtain preferential reimbursement treatment for BiDil from many private insurers. Any failure by us to secure such preferential reimbursement treatment would have a substantially negative effect on sales of BiDil. In addition, although some Medicare Part D plans are currently providing reimbursement for BiDil at Tier II levels, the number of overall plans providing this preferential reimbursement is small. Moreover, because Medicare Part D was only implemented on January 1, 2006, the Medicare Part D plans are still actively in the process of enrolling participants. We cannot know if any of the plans on which we are currently listed will have a significant number of African American participants, if any at all. We also cannot know if BiDil will continue to be listed on any of these plans at a preferential reimbursement level, if at all. Accordingly, we cannot assess the impact that the current listing of BiDil on any given plan will have on our future revenues, if any. If the plans on which BiDil is currently listed do not enroll a significant number of African American participants, we will not benefit from these listings. In addition, if BiDil is not listed on any plans that do succeed in enrolling African American participants, or if BiDil does not receive preferable reimbursement treatment on such plans, market 36 acceptance of BiDil could be negatively impacted and our ability to generate revenues from sales significantly impaired. We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to treble damages based on the reimbursements by federal healthcare programs, civil money penalties (including penalties levied on a per false claim basis), restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation or, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the costs of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our principal competitors in the markets we have targeted, including cardiovascular disease, are large, multinational pharmaceutical companies that have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do and are conducting extensive research and development activities on technologies and product candidates similar to or competitive with ours. Many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in pharmaceutical development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product marketing and manufacturing. As a result, they may: · develop and commercialize products that render our products obsolete or non-competitive or that block or delay approval of our product candidates as a result of patent or non-patent exclusivity; · develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our products; 37 · commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; · initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; · have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; and · more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and take advantage of product acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. There are a number of companies currently marketing and selling products to treat heart failure in the general population that will compete with BiDil. These include GlaxoSmithKline, plc, which currently markets Coreg®, Merck & Co., Inc., which currently markets Vasotec® and Astra Zeneca, plc, which currently markets Toprol XL®. We also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking to develop drugs using nitric oxide technology. For example, we are aware of at least seven companies working in the area of nitric oxide based therapeutics. These companies are: Angiogenix Inc., GB Therapeutics, NicOx S.A., OxoN Medica, RenoPharm, Vasopharm BIOTECH GmbH and Nitrox LLC. We may be exposed to product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing, testing, and marketing of human therapeutic products. Our clinical trial liability and commercial product liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, any insurance that we do obtain may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities, and our capital resources could be depleted as a result. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other biopharmaceutical companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2003 to January 1, 2006, our stock price has ranged from a low of $5.70 per share (on July 16, 2004) to a high of $27.99 per share (on February 2, 2005). The following factors, among others, may affect the price of our common stock: · fluctuations in our financial results, including with respect to sales of BiDil; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · governmental regulations and regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries affecting us or our competitors; · announcements of actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors’ products; · disputes relating to patents or other proprietary rights affecting us or our competitors; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; · general market conditions; 38 · fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market in general, or in the trading of the stock of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, that are unrelated to our operating performance; · issuances of securities in equity, debt or other financings; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and · the perception that such issuances or sales could occur. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 15, 2006, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, if acting together, will have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change current management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in our company. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include: · a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; · a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and · the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally defined as a person or entity which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 39 Substantially all of our outstanding common stock may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of February 23, 2006, there were 36,632,342 shares of common stock. Substantially all of these shares may also be resold in the public market at any time. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that are subject to outstanding options. The exercise of these options and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock could cause a further decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may incur significant costs and suffer management distraction and reputational damage from class action litigation and regulatory or government investigations and actions due to trading in our common stock. Our stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When the market price of a company’s stock is volatile, holders of that company’s stock may bring securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit was without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. On July 20, 2004, the Market Regulation Department of the NASD advised us that it initiated a review of trading activity in our common stock surrounding our July 19, 2004 announcement that we had halted our phase III clinical trial of BiDil due to the significant survival benefit seen with BiDil. The NASD is reviewing, among other things, information on relationships between our officers, directors and service providers and individuals and institutions that may have traded in our common stock prior to the July 19, 2004 announcement. We have cooperated with this review and have identified certain persons on the list provided to us by the NASD as having a relationship with our chief executive officer and others at NitroMed. We have established a special committee of our board of directors to oversee our response to this review. The SEC or other securities regulators may investigate trading activity of insiders and others around events that result in stock price volatility, such as our July 19, 2004 announcement, and we may incur substantial costs in connection with any such government investigation or related action. A stockholder lawsuit, SEC or other investigation or action could also damage our reputation or that of our officers or directors and divert their time and attention away from our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 