Item 1A. Risk Factors References in this section to “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to IBC and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified. References to the “bank” and “mortgage lending subsidiary” refer to our subsidiaries, INB and IMC, respectively. The following risk factors contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all of your investment. We depend on a small number of executive officers and other key employees to implement our business strategy and our business may suffer if we lose their services. Our success is dependent on the business expertise of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. Mr. Lowell Dansker, age 58, our Chairman, and Mr. Keith Olsen, age 55, President of INB, serve as our only officers with significant real estate lending experience and they make all the underwriting and lending decisions for us. If their services or any of our other executive officers or key employees were to become unavailable for any reason, our growth, operations and performance may be adversely affected because of their skills and knowledge of the markets in which we operate, their years of real estate lending experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. To attract and retain qualified personnel to support our business, we offer various employee benefits, including executive employment agreements. We have a written management succession plan that identifies internal officers to perform executive officer functions in case of temporary disruptions due to such things as illnesses or leaves of absence. The plan contains procedures regarding the selection of permanent replacements, if any, for key officers. There can be no assurance that this plan would be effective or that we would be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. Credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity. Global market and economic conditions continue to be disrupted and are volatile. The sub-prime mortgage meltdown, unstable credit markets, inactive markets for certain securities and the negative effects of mark-to-market accounting in illiquid markets have taken a huge toll on banks, other non-financial institutions, real estate values, consumers and the general economy. Many long-standing companies in the United States of America have both failed and disappeared or have been forced to merge overnight with other institutions. The Federal Reserve has provided vast amounts of liquidity into the banking system to compensate for weaknesses in short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets during 2008. A reduction in these activities or capacity could reduce liquidity in the markets further, thereby increasing our funding costs or reducing the availability of funds for us to finance our existing operations. We have been and remain a well capitalized institution and have not suffered any liquidity issues as a result of these recent events to date. However, there can be no assurance that illiquid credit markets in general may adversely affect the future cost and availability of funds to us. 24 Table of Contents We face strong competition in our market areas. Our primary markets consist of the New York City area and the Tampa Bay area of Florida, which are very competitive and such competition may increase further, which may limit our growth and profitability. We experience competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbanks located within and outside our primary market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions or with greater resources, lower cost of funds or a more established market presence. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, investment bankers, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we experience competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, credit card companies, credit unions, pension funds and securities firms. Because our profitability depends on our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete profitably for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and real estate values, changes in interest rates, changes in U.S. and international credit markets, changes in regulations and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate and multifamily mortgage loans, increasing the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by commercial and multifamily real estate (including rental and cooperative/condominium apartment buildings, office buildings, mixed-use properties, shopping centers, hotels, restaurants, industrial/warehouse properties, parking lots/garages, mobile home parks, self-storage facilities and vacant land). We plan to continue the origination of these types of loans. This concentration increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Commercial real estate and multifamily loans are generally considered riskier than many other kinds of loans, like single family residential real estate loans, since these loans tend to involve larger loan balances to one borrower or groups of related borrowers and repayment of loans secured by income-producing property is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the underlying real estate. Additionally, loans on vacant properties or vacant land typically do not have income streams and depend upon other sources of cash flow from the borrower for repayment. Additionally, many of our borrowers also have more than one mortgage loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss. Our average real estate loan size may continue to increase in the future. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market and economic conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. The properties collateraling our loans are concentrated in New York or Florida and a local economic downturn could hinder our ability to operate profitably and have an adverse impact on our operations. The properties collateralizing our mortgage loans are concentrated in New York City and Florida, our two primary lending market areas. Accordingly, our business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economies of those geographic areas. The economy and real estate values in Florida are currently depressed and the New York market has also experienced weakness in 2008. We tend to lend in areas that are in the process of being revitalized or redeveloped. A large number of the properties in New York are located in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Long Island, Staten Island and the Bronx. A large number of the properties in Florida are located in Clearwater, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando, Fort Lauderdale, Hollywood and Miami. The geographical concentration of our loans subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas could result in a decrease in our loan originations and increases in our loan delinquencies and foreclosures. Many of the multifamily properties located in New York City and surrounding boroughs are also subject to rent control and rent stabilization laws, which limit the ability of the property owners to increase rents, which may in turn limit the borrower’s ability to repay those mortgage loans. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. We may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans. 25 Table of Contents Our business strategy may not be successful. Our business strategy has been and will continue to be the attraction of new deposits and the origination of new commercial and multifamily real estate loans. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on factors outside of our control, including the state of economic conditions generally and in our market areas in particular, as well as interest rate trends, the state of credit markets, loan demand and competition. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing or maintaining the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk and asset quality levels and upon acceptable terms, while managing the associated costs and implementation risks of our strategy. There can be no assurance that any future growth will be profitable. In addition, we rely on a small number of key executives in relation to our size and there can be no assurance that such executives will be able to manage future growth successfully. We depend on brokers for our mortgage lending activities and any reduction in referrals could limit our ability to grow or maintain the size of our loan portfolio. We rely significantly on referrals from mortgage brokers for our loan originations. Our loan volume depends on our ability to continue to attract these referrals from mortgage brokers. If those referrals were to decline or not expand, there can be no assurances that other sources of loan originations would be available to us. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our earnings and we must continually identify and invest in mortgage loans or other instruments with rates of return above our cost of funds. As a financial institution, we are subject to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. A significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, which depends primarily on the generation of net interest income which is dependent on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between yields earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our success depends on our ability to invest a substantial percentage of our assets in mortgage loans with rates of return that exceed our cost of funds. We may also experience lower rates of return from the investment of our assets, including but not limited to proceeds from the prepayment of loans, in liquid assets such as government securities and overnight funds. Both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the state of the credit markets, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and market interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates are difficult to predict and are not controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurance of our ability to maintain a consistent positive interest rate spread. There can be no assurances that a sudden and substantial change in interest rates may not adversely impact our earnings, to the extent that the interest rates borne by assets and liabilities do not change at the same speed, to the same extent, or on the same basis. For a further discussion of our management of interest rate risk, see the section entitled “Asset and Liability Management” in this report on Form 10-K. If the properties underlying many of our mortgage loans lose value, we may suffer loan losses. Our ability to recover our investment in the mortgage loans we originate is solely or primarily dependent on the market value of the properties underlying such loans because many of our mortgage loans have nonrecourse or limited recourse. Under the terms of nonrecourse mortgages, the owner of the property subject to the mortgage has no personal obligation to repay the mortgage note which the mortgage secures. In some circumstances, we may have limited recourse against the owner with respect to liabilities related to tenant security deposits, proceeds from insurance policies, condemnation losses, losses arising under environmental laws and/or losses resulting from waste or acts of malfeasance. In addition, our losses in connection with delinquent and foreclosed loans may be more pronounced because commercial and multifamily real estate mortgage loans generally defer repayment of a substantial part of the original principal amount until maturity, and if borrowers default on their balloon payments or if we have a junior lien position, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, since we tend to lend in areas that are in the process of being revitalized or redeveloped, properties securing our loans in these types of neighborhoods may be more susceptible to fluctuations in property values than in more established areas. 26 Table of Contents In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of our loans. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for, in which case our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to pay any remaining indebtedness. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in order to mitigate the effect of possible losses inherent in our loan portfolio. There is a risk that we may experience losses which could exceed the allowance for loan losses we have set aside. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are discussed in the section “Critical Accounting Policies” in this report on Form 10-K. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, we may have to increase our allowance for loan losses or loan chargeoffs, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to protect us against loan losses that we may incur. Furthermore, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a highly leveraged company and our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from executing our business strategy. At December 31, 2008, our borrowed funds (exclusive of deposits) and related interest payable was approximately $150 million. This level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations to the holders of our debt and could limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund our working capital requirements. The inability to incur additional indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition by, among other things, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors who may operate on a less leveraged basis. As a result, this may make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our profitability and growth. We operate in a highly regulated industry and government regulations significantly affect our business. The banking industry is extensively regulated with regulations intended primarily to protect depositors, consumers and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and not stockholders. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and INB is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, asset allocations, operating practices, growth and dividend policy. The bank regulatory agencies have broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements resulting in an increased burden to us. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements, and a failure to meet minimum capital requirements or to comply with other regulations could result in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in law, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. 27 Table of Contents Since we engage in collateral-based lending and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the risks and increased costs associated with the ownership of real estate, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may need to foreclose on properties that collateralize our mortgage loans that are in default as a means of repayment and may thereafter own and operate such properties, which expose us to risks and costs inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize from the sale of collateral property, is dependent upon various factors including: limitations on interest rates imposed by local law, general or local economic conditions; neighborhood real estate values; real estate tax rates; operating expenses of the properties; supply of and demand for rental units or properties; ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; zoning laws; governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and acts of God. The costs associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may exceed the rental income earned from such property, if any, and we may therefore have to advance additional funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose the property at a loss. Further, hazardous substances could be discovered on the foreclosed properties and we may be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our expense, which could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. All of the above could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an audit report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing such internal control. These reports have been included in this annual report on Form 10-K. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and believe as of both dates that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud, which could negatively affect our business. Political issues, including armed conflicts and acts of terrorism, may adversely affect our business. Political issues, including armed conflicts and acts of terrorism, may have an adverse impact on economic conditions of the country as a whole and may be more pronounced in specific geographic regions. Economic conditions affect the market value of the mortgaged properties underlying our loans as well as the levels of rent and occupancy of income-producing properties. Since a large number of properties underlying our mortgage loans are located in New York City, we may be more vulnerable to the adverse impact of such occurrences than other institutions. Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. A breach of information security could negatively affect our business. We depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, including over the internet. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, deposits, and loans. We cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. We also rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated and could result in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. 28 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could also have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries. IBC is a separate and distinct legal entity from INB and IMC, and a substantial portion of the revenues it receives consists of dividends from INB. These dividends are currently funding the interest and principal payments on IBC’s debt and, beginning in 2009, IBC’s preferred stock dividend requirements. Future cash dividends that IBC may pay on its common stock would be dependent on an additional like amount of cash dividends received from INB. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, IBC’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If INB is unable to pay dividends to IBC, in turn IBC may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations, or pay dividends on its common and preferred stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on our executive compensation. We have participated in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program and are subject to various restrictions as defined therein, including the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for as long as the Treasury holds our Series A preferred stock, or any common stock that may be issued to them pursuant to the warrant they hold. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. This deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and we could potentially be subject to the above restrictions for a ten-year time period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 