Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. Risks Related to Our Business Additional increases in our level of nonperforming assets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our results of operations for the last two years have been negatively impacted by the weak economy, high rates of unemployment, increased office and retail vacancy rates and lower commercial real estate values, all of which have resulted in a significant increase in our nonperforming assets and associated loan and real estate loss provisions and related expenses to carry these assets. We expect these unfavorable conditions to continue for some period of time. Our nonperforming assets at December 31, 2009, amounted to $155.7 million, or 6.49% of our total assets, and were comprised of $123.9 million of nonaccrual loans and $31.8 million of real estate acquired through foreclosure. At December 31, 2009, we also had $97.3 million of accruing restructured loans on which we have granted certain concessions to provide payment relief generally consisting of the deferral of principal and or interest payments for a period of time, or a partial reduction in interest payments. We have historically worked toward the resolution of our problem assets on an individual basis with the objective of maximizing the recovery of our investment. Although we intend to continue to actively manage our nonperforming assets, due to the cost of and delays we have encountered in connection with the pursuit of available remedies, we intend to identify certain assets that can be disposed of through an immediate sale at sales prices that may below our current net recorded investment in such assets. Our ability to complete foreclosure or other proceedings to acquire and sell certain collateral properties in many cases has been delayed by various factors including bankruptcy proceedings and an overloaded court system. As a result, the timing and amount of the resolution/disposition of nonaccrual loans as well as foreclosed real estate cannot be predicted with certainty. If the current downturn in commercial real estate values and local economic conditions in both New York and Florida as well as the delays noted above were to continue for an additional extended period, it could have an adverse impact on our future asset quality and level of nonperforming assets, charge offs and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will not have significant additional loan and real loss provisions or expenses in connection with the ultimate collection of nonaccrual loans or in carrying and disposing of foreclosed real estate. We also do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and we also incur increased related administration costs. In addition, the resolution of our nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from our management and directors, which could be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. All of the above factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 27 Table of Contents We may have higher loan and real estate losses than we have allowed for which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We maintain an allowance for loan losses and a valuation allowance for real estate losses in order to mitigate the effect of losses inherent in our loan portfolio and our portfolio of real estate acquired through foreclosure. There is a risk that we may experience losses that could exceed the allowances we have set aside. In determining the size of the allowances, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and the estimated market values of collateral properties and foreclosed real estate, which are discussed under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies” in this report. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, we may have to increase these allowances by recording additional provisions, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our allowances for loan and real estate losses will be adequate to protect us against actual loan and real estate losses that we may incur. Furthermore, our regulators may require us to make additional provisions for loan and real estate losses and/or recognize additional chargeoffs after their periodic review of these portfolios and related allowances, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risks and costs associated with the ownership of real estate, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may need to foreclose on the properties that collateralize our mortgage loans that are in default as a means of repayment and may thereafter own and operate such properties, which expose us to risks and costs inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we may realize from the sale of a collateral property is dependent upon the market value of the property at the time we are able to find a buyer and actually sell the asset. In addition, the costs associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance and repair costs, may exceed the rental income earned from the property, if any, and we may therefore have to advance additional funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose the property at a loss. Further, hazardous substances could be discovered on the properties and we may be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our expense, which could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and the remedies may involve substantial delay and expense to us and we may find it difficult to sell the affected properties and we may be forced to own the properties for an extended period of time. All of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Weak economic conditions in our New York and Florida markets could continue to negatively impact our asset quality, financial condition and operating results. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the local economic conditions and commercial real estate values in New York and Florida. The local economies and commercial real estate values in both states continued to weaken in 2009 and we expect these conditions to for some period of time. A sustained and prolonged economic and real estate downturn could continue to adversely affect the quality of our assets, further increase our credit losses, real estate losses and related expenses, and reduce the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial and multifamily real estate mortgage loans, which increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by commercial and multifamily real estate (including rental and cooperative/condominium apartment buildings, office buildings, mixed-use properties, shopping centers, hotels, restaurants, industrial/warehouse properties, parking lots/garages, mobile home parks, self-storage facilities and vacant land). This concentration increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio because commercial real estate and multifamily loans are generally considered riskier than many other kinds of loans, like single family residential real estate loans, since these loans tend to involve larger loan balances to one borrower or groups of related borrowers and repayment of such loans is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the underlying real estate. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, we have loans secured by vacant or substantially vacant properties as well as vacant land, all of which typically do not have adequate or any income streams and depend upon other sources of cash flow from the borrower for repayment. Furthermore, many of our borrowers have more than one mortgage loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss. Our average real estate loan size is currently $2.6 million. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market and economic conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. Our ability to recover our investment in the mortgage loans we originate is dependent on the market value of the properties underlying such loans because many of our mortgage loans have nonrecourse or limited recourse. In addition, our losses in connection with delinquent and foreclosed loans may be more pronounced because our commercial and multifamily real estate mortgage loans generally defer repayment of a substantial part of the original principal amount until maturity. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us. The market value of the real estate collateralizing our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of our loans. All of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The properties securing our loans are concentrated in New York and Florida, which increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio. The properties securing our mortgage loans are concentrated in New York and Florida (our two primary lending market areas), which have and continue to suffer weak economic conditions and lower commercial real estate values. Additionally, we have and will continue to lend in geographical areas that are in the process of being revitalized or redeveloped which can be negatively impacted to a greater degree in an economic downturn. Properties securing our loans in these types of neighborhoods may be more susceptible to fluctuations in property values than in more established areas. Many of the multifamily properties located in New York City and surrounding boroughs are also subject to rent control and rent stabilization laws, which limit the ability of the property owners to increase rents, which may in turn limit the borrower’s ability to repay those mortgage loans which results in a higher degree of risk. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. Such weather events can disrupt operations and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where the properties are located. Political issues, including armed conflicts and acts of terrorism, may have an adverse impact on economic conditions of the country as a whole and may be more pronounced in specific geographic regions. Economic conditions affect the market value of the mortgaged properties underlying our loans as well as the levels of rent and occupancy of income-producing properties. Since a large number of properties underlying our mortgage loans are located in New York City, we may be more vulnerable to the adverse impact of such occurrences than other institutions. Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. All of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on our investment in trust preferred securities, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. INB owns trust preferred security investments with a net carrying value of $5.8 million at December 31, 2009 that are classified as held to maturity. The estimated fair value of these securities are very depressed due to the unusual credit conditions that the financial industry has faced since the middle of 2008 and weak economic conditions, which has severely reduced the demand for these securities and rendered their trading market inactive. In 2009, we recorded other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges of $2.3 million on these securities. The OTTI determination was based on an increase in the aggregate amount of deferred and defaulted interest payments on the underlying collateral by the issuing banks such that it is no longer probable that INB will recover its full investment in the applicable security. There can be no assurance that there will not be further write downs in the future on these trust preferred securities, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business strategy may not be successful. Our business strategy is to attract deposits and originate commercial and multifamily real estate loans on a profitable basis. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on factors outside of our control, including the state of economic conditions generally and in our market areas in particular, as well as interest rate trends, the state of credit markets, loan demand, competition, government regulations, regulatory restrictions and other factors. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing the level of our loans and deposits at an acceptable risk or on profitable terms, while also managing the costs of resolving our nonperforming assets. There can be no assurance that there will be any future growth in our current business or that it will be profitable. We depend on a small number of executive officers and other key employees to implement our business strategy and our business may suffer if we lose their services. Our success is dependent on the business expertise of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. Mr. Lowell Dansker, age 59, our Chairman, and Mr. Keith Olsen, age 56, President of INB, serve as our only officers with significant real estate lending experience and they make all the underwriting and lending decisions for us. If these two executives or any of our other executive officers or key employees were to become unavailable for any reason, our business may be adversely affected because of their skills and knowledge of the markets in which we operate, their years of real estate lending experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. To attract and retain qualified personnel to support our business, we offer various employee benefits, including executive employment agreements. We have a written management succession plan that identifies internal officers to perform executive officer functions in case of temporary disruptions due to such things as illnesses or leaves of absence. The plan contains procedures regarding the selection of permanent replacements, if any, for key officers. There can be no assurance that this plan would be effective or that we would be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel may also lead to increased hiring and retention costs. We face strong competition in our market areas. Our primary markets consist of the New York City area and the Tampa Bay area of Florida, which are very competitive and such competition may increase further. We experience competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbanks located within and outside our primary market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions with greater resources, lower cost of funds or a more established market presence. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, investment bankers, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual fund industry. For loans, we experience competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, credit card companies, credit unions, pension funds and securities firms. Because our business depends on our ability to attract deposits and originate loans profitably, our ability to efficiently compete for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and commercial real estate values, changes in interest rates, changes in the credit markets and funds available for lending generally, advances in technology, changes in government regulations and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. 30 Table of Contents We depend on brokers for our loan originations and any reduction in referrals could limit our ability to grow or maintain the size of our loan portfolio. We rely significantly on referrals from mortgage brokers for our loan originations. Our loan origination volume depends on our ability to continue to attract these referrals from mortgage brokers. If those referrals were to decline or not expand, there can be no assurances that other sources of loan originations would be available to us. Liquidity risks could negatively affect our operations and business. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. In addition to deposits, our primary funding sources include unsecured federal funds that we purchase from correspondent banks as well as secured advances, both short- and longer-term, that are available from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with the use of our security investments and certain loans that can be pledged as collateral. Other sources of liquidity that may be available to us, but cannot be assured, include our ability to issue and sell debentures, preferred stock or common stock in public or private transactions. Our access to adequate amounts of funding sources on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the credit markets. There can be no assurance that our current level of liquidity sources will be adequate or not be adversely affected in the future and reduce the availability of funds to us. Volatility in the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business The capital and credit markets experienced severe volatility and disruption recently. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and reduced credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility were to continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital or credit and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our earnings and we must continually identify and invest in mortgage loans or other instruments with rates of return above our cost of funds. As a financial institution, we are subject to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. A significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, which depends primarily on the generation of net interest income which is dependent on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between yields earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our success depends on our ability to invest a substantial percentage of our assets in mortgage loans with rates of return that exceed our cost of funds. We may also experience lower rates of return from the investment of our assets, including but not limited to proceeds from the prepayment of loans, in liquid assets such as government securities and overnight funds. Both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the state of the credit markets, government monetary policy and market interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates are difficult to predict and are not controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurance of our ability to maintain a consistent positive interest rate spread. There can be no assurances that a sudden and substantial change in interest rates may not adversely impact our earnings, to the extent that the interest rates borne by assets and liabilities do not change at the same speed, to the same extent, or on the same basis. For a further discussion of our management of interest rate risk, see the caption entitled “Asset and Liability Management” in this report. 31 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition and our business. Our borrowed funds (exclusive of deposits) and related interest payable was approximately $119 million at December 31, 2009. This level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations to the holders of our debt and could limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund our working capital requirements. The inability to incur additional indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition by, among other things, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors who may operate on a less leveraged basis. As a result, this may make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes. Reputational risk and social factors may negatively impact us. Our ability to attract and maintain depositors and customers is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of either or both of our business practices and financial condition. Adverse perceptions could damage our reputation to a level that could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining deposit accounts, accessing credit markets and increased regulatory scrutiny on our business. Adverse developments or perceptions regarding the business practices or financial condition of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also indirectly adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely impact our reputation. All of the above factors may result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer and may also increase our litigation risk. If these risks were to materialize they could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory Risks We operate in a highly regulated industry and government regulations significantly affect our business. The banking industry is extensively regulated with regulations intended primarily to protect depositors, consumers and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and INB is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, asset allocations, operating practices, growth and dividend policy. The bank regulatory agencies have broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements resulting in an increased burden to us. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements, and a failure to meet capital requirements that are applicable to us or to comply with other regulations could result in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in law, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. 32 Table of Contents Our current operations and activities are subject to heightened regulatory oversight which increases our operating expenses and may negatively impact our business. On April 7, 2009, INB entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the OCC, its primary regulator, which requires INB to (1) appoint a Compliance Committee to monitor and coordinate INB’s adherence to the MOU and to submit progress reports to the OCC; (2) develop and implement a Strategic Plan in accordance with guidelines set forth in the MOU; (3) review and revise INB’s Contingency Funding Plan to address matters outlined in the MOU; (4) develop and implement a written program to improve credit risk management processes that are consistent across INB’s two primary markets; (5) develop and implement a three-year capital program in accordance with guidelines set out in the MOU; and (6) review and revise INB’s interest rate risk policy and procedures to address matters set forth in the MOU. We have satisfied the first condition of the MOU and have commenced the steps necessary to resolve the remaining matters presented therein, all of which are either in various stages of completion or have been completed and are under the ongoing review of the OCC for their approval. The OCC may require further action on our part in order to fully satisfy these matters. In addition, we have hired a credit risk manager subject to the approval of the OCC. There can be no assurance as to the timing of completion of all the above matters. In April 2009, INB also agreed with the OCC to maintain minimum capital ratios at specified levels higher than those otherwise required by applicable regulations as follows: Tier 1 capital to total average assets (leverage ratio) - 9%; Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets - 10%; and total capital to risk-weighted assets - 12%. At December 31, 2009, INB’s actual capital ratios were in excess of these levels and were 10.05%, 12.79% and 14.04%, respectively. As a result of the above, our operations, lending activities and capital levels are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight, over and above the extensive regulation which normally applies to us under existing regulations, which will increase our expenses and could negatively impact our business. In addition, failure by INB to comply with these heightened requirements could lead to additional regulatory actions, expenses and other restrictions. FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased substantially and may increase further, which will adversely affect our results of operations Our operating results have been negatively impacted by a substantial increase in FDIC premiums for all FDIC insured banks. Our FDIC insurance expense for 2009 increased 246% from 2008 to $5.2 million, which included a special assessment imposed in June 2009 on all insured banks and amounted to $1.1 million for us. We expect deposit insurance premiums will continue to remain at a high level or increase for all banks, including the possibility of additional special assessments, due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from recent bank failures and an increase in the number of banks likely to fail over the next few years. Our current level of FDIC insurance expense as well as any further increases thereto will adversely affect our operating results. We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries. IBC is a separate and distinct legal entity from INB and IMC, and a substantial portion of the revenues it receives consists of dividends from INB. IBC has raised working capital in the past through the sale of trust preferred securities, debentures, common stock and preferred stock and has down streamed the proceeds from such transactions to INB as capital investments. INB has made cash dividend payments to IBC to fund the interest payments on IBC’s outstanding debt and the cash dividend requirements on IBC’s outstanding preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company as described in more detail under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in this report. In addition, IBC’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. If INB is unable to pay dividends to IBC for any reason, IBC in turn may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations, or pay cash dividends on its preferred stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In January 2010, INB has been informed by it primary regulator, the OCC, that it will not be permitted to pay any cash dividends to IBC. INB has accordingly suspended its cash dividend payments to IBC effective January 2010. In February 2010, the FRB, IBC’s primary regulator, informed IBC that it may not, without the prior approval of the FRB, pay dividends on or redeem its capital stock, pay interest on or redeem its trust preferred securities, or incur new debt. 33 Table of Contents Accounting, Systems and Internal Control Risks Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and procedures are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and operating results. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has and continues to issue a large number of accounting standards that necessarily require all companies to exercise significant judgment and interpretation in the application of those standards. For example, banks now need to use “significant” judgment when assessing the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities sitting on their balance sheets even though market values can change rapidly and may not be representative due to the inactivity of certain markets. These judgments and estimates could lead to inaccuracy and/or incomparability of financial statements in the banking industry. Future changes in financial accounting and reporting standards could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and even require us to restate prior period financial statements. The accuracy of our judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition. We necessarily make certain estimates and judgments in preparing our financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact our operating results and financial condition. For a further discussion, see the caption “Critical Accounting Policies” in this report. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to accurately report our financial condition, operating results or prevent fraud. We regularly review and update our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. We maintain controls and procedures to mitigate against risks such as processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. We maintain insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by our internal controls or are not insured against or are in excess of our insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results of operations and financial condition. A breach of information security could negatively affect our business. We depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, including over the internet. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. We cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. We also rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated and could result in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The inability to keep pace with technological changes on our part could also have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. 34 Table of Contents We are subject to various restrictions as a result of our participation in the U.S Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. IBC voluntarily participated in the U.S Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program instituted under TARP and we are now subject to various restrictions as defined therein, including standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for as long as the Treasury holds IBC’s Series A Preferred Stock, or any common stock that may be issued to them pursuant to the warrant they hold. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. This deductibility limit on executive compensation, which currently only affects our Chairman’s compensation, will increase the overall after-tax cost of our compensation programs in future periods and we could potentially be subject to the above restrictions for a ten-year time period. Pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, have been imposed on our most highly compensated employees, which may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit qualified personnel, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 