Risk Factors References in this section to “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Intervest Bancshares Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified. References to the “bank” and “mortgage lending subsidiary” refer to our subsidiaries, Intervest National Bank and Intervest Mortgage Corporation, respectively. The following risk factors contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all of your investment. We depend on a small number of executive officers and other key employees to implement our business strategy and our business may suffer if we lose their services. Our success is largely dependent on the business expertise and relationships of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. Currently, Mr. Lowell S. Dansker, age 57, our Chairman, and Mr. Keith Olsen, age 54, President of the Florida Division of the bank, serve as our only officers with significant real estate lending experience and they make all the underwriting and lending decisions for us. If their services or any of our other executive officers or key employees were to become unavailable for any reason, our growth, operations and performance may be adversely affected because of their skills and knowledge of the markets in which we operate, their years of real estate lending experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. To attract and retain personnel with the skills and knowledge to support our business, we offer a number of employee benefits, including employment agreements with certain officers. We also have a formal management succession plan that identifies internal officers to perform executive officer functions in connection with any temporary change in executive officers due to such things as illnesses or leaves of absence. The plan also describes the procedures to be followed in connection with the selection of permanent replacements, if any, for key officers. There can be no assurance however that such plan would be effective or that the Company would be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. 24 Table of Contents We face strong competition in our market areas, which may limit our growth and profitability. Our primary markets consist of the New York City area and the Tampa Bay area of Florida, which are very competitive and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our growth and profitability. We experience competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbanks located within and outside our primary market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions or institutions with greater resources, lower cost of funds or a more established market presence. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, investment bankers, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we encounter strong competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, credit card companies, credit unions, pension funds and securities firms. Because our profitability stems from our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete profitably for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and real estate values, changes in interest rates, and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. We depend on brokers and other sources for our mortgage lending activities and any reduction in referrals could limit our ability to grow or maintain the size of our loan portfolio. We rely significantly on referrals from mortgage brokers for our loan originations. Our loan growth depends on our ability to continue to attract referrals from mortgage brokers. If those referrals were to decline or not expand, there can be no assurances that other sources of loan originations would be available to us to maintain a level of growth consistent with our historical performance. Our loans are highly concentrated in commercial real estate and multifamily mortgage loans, increasing the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate and multifamily mortgage loans, including some loans on vacant or substantially vacant properties and vacant land. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. This concentration increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Commercial real estate and multifamily loans are generally considered riskier than many other kinds of loans, like single family residential real estate loans, since these loans tend to involve larger loan balances to one borrower or groups of related borrowers and repayment of loans secured by income-producing property is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the underlying real estate. Additionally, loans on vacant properties or vacant land typically do not have income streams and depend upon other sources of cash flow from the borrower for repayment. Additionally, many of our borrowers also have more than one mortgage loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss. Our average real estate loan size may continue to increase in the future. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market and economic conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. Our historical levels of balance sheet growth and financial performance may not continue if our growth strategy is not successful. A key component of our business strategy has been and will continue to be our growth, including the attraction of additional deposits and the origination of additional loans. Our ability to grow depends upon several factors outside of our control, including economic conditions generally and in our market areas in particular, as well as interest rate trends, loan demand and competition. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk and asset quality levels and upon acceptable terms, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that further expansion will be profitable either through internal growth or through other expansion of our banking markets. In addition, we have relied historically on a relatively small number of key executives in relation to the size of our company, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage anticipated future growth without additional management staff, which would increase our expenses. 25 Table of Contents An economic downturn in New York or Florida could hinder our ability to operate profitably and have an adverse impact on our operations. The properties collateralizing our mortgage loans are heavily concentrated in New York City and Florida, our two primary lending market areas. Accordingly, our business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economies of those geographic areas. At December 31, 2007, mortgages representing 64% and 25% of the principal balance of our total loan portfolio were on properties located in New York State and Florida, respectively. A large number of the loans in New York are secured by properties located in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. A large number of the loans in Florida are secured by properties located in Clearwater, Tampa, Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Orlando and St. Petersburg. The geographical concentration of our loans subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas could result in a decrease in our loan originations and increases in our loan delinquencies and foreclosures. Many of the properties located in the New York City area underlying our mortgage loans are subject to rent control and rent stabilization laws, which limit the ability of property owners to increase rents, which in turn may affect the borrowers’ ability to repay those mortgage loans. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. We may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans which would have an adverse impact on our operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our earnings and we must continually identify and invest in mortgage loans or other instruments with rates of return above our cost of funds. As a financial institution, we are subject to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. A significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net income. Our profitability depends primarily on the generation of net interest income which is dependent on the interest rate spread, which is the difference between yields earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our success, in large part, depends on our ability to invest a substantial percentage of our assets in mortgage loans with rates of return that exceed our cost of funds. We may also experience lower rates of return from the investment of our assets, including but not limited to proceeds from the prepayment of loans, in liquid assets such as government securities and overnight funds. Both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and market interest rates. In 2007, a higher cost of funds, an increase in nonaccrual loans as well as a persistent flat to inverted U.S. Treasury yield curve that has existed since 2006 negatively affected our net interest margin. Our net interest margin was 2.11% and 2.75% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Should our cost of funds and nonaccrual loans continue to increase and the yield curve continue to be unfavorable, our net interest margin may be negatively affected, offsetting a portion of, or all gains in net interest income generated from any increase in the volume of interest-earning assets. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurance of our ability to maintain a consistent positive interest rate spread between the yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. There can be no assurances that a sudden and substantial change in interest rates may not adversely impact our earnings, to the extent that the interest rates borne by assets and liabilities do not change at the same speed, to the same extent, or on the same basis. For a further discussion of our management of interest rate risk, see the section entitled “Asset and Liability Management” in this report on Form 10-K. If the properties underlying many of our mortgage loans lose value, we may suffer loan losses. Our ability to recover our investment in mortgage loans is solely or primarily dependent on the market value of the properties underlying such loans because many of our mortgages that we have originated, or will originate in the future, are nonrecourse or limited recourse. Under the terms of nonrecourse mortgages, the owner of the property subject to the mortgage has no personal obligation to repay the mortgage note which the mortgage secures. In some circumstances, we may have limited recourse against the owner with respect to liabilities related to tenant security deposits, proceeds from insurance policies, losses arising under environmental laws and/or losses resulting from waste or acts of malfeasance. 26 Table of Contents In addition, our losses in connection with delinquent and foreclosed loans may be more pronounced because commercial and multifamily real estate mortgage loans generally defer repayment of a substantial part of the original principal amount until maturity, and if borrowers default on their balloon payments or if we have a junior lien position, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, since we tend to lend in areas that are in the process of being revitalized or redeveloped, properties securing our loans in these types of neighborhoods may be more susceptible to fluctuations in property values than in more established areas. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. We may have higher loan losses than we have allowed for, in which case our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to pay any remaining indebtedness. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in order to mitigate the effect of possible losses inherent in our loan portfolio. There is a risk that we may experience losses which could exceed the allowance for loan losses we have set aside. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are discussed in the section “Critical Accounting Policies” in this report on Form 10-K. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, we may have to increase our allowance for loan losses or loan chargeoffs which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to protect us against loan losses that we may incur. Furthermore, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a highly leveraged company and our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from continuing to grow our balance sheet. At December 31, 2007, our borrowed funds (exclusive of deposits) and related interest payable was approximately $136 million. This level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations to the holders of our debt and could limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund our working capital requirements. In addition, the indentures underlying the subordinated debentures of our mortgage lending subsidiary contain financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit its ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our mortgage lending subsidiary has and expects to continue to rely on the issuance of its subordinated debentures in registered, best efforts offerings to the public as a source of funds to support its loan originations. The inability to incur additional indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition by, among other things, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors who may operate on a less leveraged basis. As a result, this may make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our profitability and growth. We operate in a highly regulated industry and government regulations significantly affect our business. The banking industry is extensively regulated. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, consumers and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, referred to in this report as the FDIC, and not stockholders. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board, referred to in this report as the FRB, and the bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this report as the OCC. 27 Table of Contents Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, asset allocations, operating practices, growth and dividend policy. The bank regulatory agencies have broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements resulting in an increased burden to us. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements, and a failure to meet minimum capital requirements or to comply with other regulations could result in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in law, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Since we engage in collateral-based lending and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the risks and increased costs associated with the ownership of real estate, which could adversely affect our operating results. Since we are a collateral-based lender, we may need to from time to time foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks and costs inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a loan default, is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: general or local economic conditions; neighborhood values; limitations on interest rates imposed by local law; real estate tax rates; operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; supply of and demand for rental units or properties; ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; zoning laws; governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and acts of God. The costs associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may therefore have to advance additional funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real estate at a loss. Further, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on the foreclosed properties. We may then be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events as well as the foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may not allow us to be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an audit report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing such internal control. These reports have been included in this annual report on Form 10-K. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and believe as of both dates that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, including safeguarding of assets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud, which could negatively affect our business. Political issues, including armed conflicts and acts of terrorism, may adversely affect our business. Political issues, including armed conflicts and acts of terrorism, may have an adverse impact on economic conditions of the country as a whole and may be more pronounced in specific geographic regions. Economic conditions affect the market value of the mortgaged properties underlying the Company’s loans as well as the levels of rent and occupancy of income-producing properties. Since a large number of properties underlying our mortgage loans are located in New York City, we may be more vulnerable to the adverse impact of such occurrences than other institutions. Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of depositors to maintain their deposits with the bank. 28 Table of Contents A breach of information security could negatively affect our business. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, including over the internet. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. We cannot be certain that all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated and could result in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could also have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries. The Holding Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the bank and its mortgage lending subsidiary, and a substantial portion of the revenues it receives consists of dividends from the bank. These dividends are currently funding the interest and principal payments on the Holding Company’s debt. Dividends, if any, the Holding Company may pay on its common stock would dependent on a like amount of dividends received from the bank. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, the Holding Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the bank is unable to pay dividends to the Holding Company, the Holding Company may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations, or pay dividends on its common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 