ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NitroMed and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to our Business Our business is substantially dependent on the commercial success of BiDil, and if we do not maintain market presence of BiDil during the development of BiDil XR, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price will decline. On June 23, 2005, the FDA approved BiDil for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified black patients as an adjunct to current standard therapy. We launched BiDil in July 2005 and therefore have only recently begun to receive revenue from sales of BiDil. BiDil is currently our only commercial product, and we expect that it will account for all of our product sales and substantially all of our total revenues for the near future. We face a number of significant risks relating to our ability to successfully commercialize BiDil, including risks relating to: · our ability to successfully market and sell BiDil with our significantly reduced sales force and centralized marketing efforts; · the success of our revised sales and marketing strategies for BiDil; 19 · our ability to recruit and train our proposed specialty sales force and the effectiveness of our new sales force in influencing prescribing behavior with heart failure specialists and key institutions; · our ability to successfully secure preferable reimbursement treatment from government and third-party insurers for BiDil; · our ability to successfully enter into a co-promotion agreement for BiDil on favorable terms, if at all; · our ability to gain market acceptance of BiDil as safe, effective and medically necessary; · the availability of substantial amounts of cash to fund our BiDil commercialization plans; · competitive factors, including competition resulting from physicians prescribing the two lower cost generically available components of BiDil (isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride) as a substitute for BiDil, and adverse effects on pricing or reimbursement resulting from this substitution; · our ability to effectively develop and/or contract for adequate marketing, manufacturing, and distribution capabilities; · our ability to maintain the necessary patent protection, licenses and regulatory approvals required to market and sell BiDil; and · the various other factors discussed in detail throughout this section titled “Risk Factors.” In order for us to successfully commercialize BiDil, we must maintain our market presence of BiDil in the near term and must build a sufficient commercial foundation from which to launch BiDil XR in the future. If we fail to sustain market awareness of BiDil, our near-term ability to generate product revenue, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired, and the value of our stock will decline. Poor performance by our restructured sales force, or difficulties arising from the restructuring of our sales organization, could prevent us from achieving the results we need to maintain market presence of BiDil. In October 2006, we initiated a restructuring program that included a reduction of our sales force and administrative headcount. As part of the restructuring program, we eliminated our existing sales force and replaced it with a small team of highly experienced senior cardiovascular specialists, resulting in a net reduction of approximately 120 in sales force headcount. In addition, we also eliminated approximately 20% of our general and administrative personnel in connection with this restructuring program. Our restructured sales force is expected to be comprised initially of a director of managed markets, six national account directors, two area business directors and twenty-one cardiovascular business managers. Our near-term revenue for BiDil will depend significantly upon the efforts and success of our restructured sales organization. In addition, during the first quarter of 2006, we elected to reduce the number of sales territories in which we have sales representation. As a result of our October 2006 restructuring, we significantly reduced the number of individuals in our sales organization who cover these territories. Any failure to adequately cover our current sales territories, or to cover through alternative marketing efforts the territories in which we have elected not to have sales representation, will result in reduced sales productivity and loss of revenue related to BiDil. The success of our revised selling strategy will also depend on our ability to recruit the caliber of representatives necessary to implement our new strategy. Since launching BiDil, we have reduced our sales force representation from 195 to the current plan of 21 through various territory realignments and 20 restructurings, which could significantly limit our ability to successfully recruit and retain highly qualified sales representatives. In addition, we are seeking sales representatives with a very high level of technical, selling and institutional experience to fill our newly created cardiovascular business manager positions. These are highly specialized skills and we may not be able to hire sales representatives who meet these qualifications. Any delay in our ability to recruit the required number of individuals to cover our revised sales territories, or any failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, could significantly delay or hinder the success of our revised selling strategy. If we do not successfully market and sell BiDil, either directly through our small, restructured sales force or indirectly through third-party co-promotion arrangements, our future revenue will be limited. We launched BiDil in the United States ourselves, using a contract sales force. We transitioned to the use of a smaller sales force during the first quarter of 2006, we internalized this sales force during the second quarter of 2006, and in October 2006 we replaced this sales force with a small team of highly experienced senior cardiovascular specialists. The transition to this specialized sales force could adversely affect our marketing of BiDil and depress the value of our stock. As part of our October 2006 restructuring, we revised our marketing strategy to reduce the level of our direct face-to-face marketing efforts and adopted a more centralized approach to marketing that will involve various non-personal methods of contacting current and potential prescribers. The direct marketing efforts in which we will continue to engage through our small, specialized sales team will be focused on national thought leaders, regional heart failure specialists and key institutions in major metropolitan centers that treat, and influence the treatment of, large numbers of African Americans who have been diagnosed with heart failure. Our approach is to educate those thought leaders and institutions on the value of BiDil, and then leverage their influence to impact the broader base of prescribers. If we are unable to convince these thought leaders and institutions that BiDil is safe, effective and medically necessary, we will be unsuccessful in our marketing approach. In addition, even if we are successful in gaining acceptance of BiDil with these key targets, these thought leaders and institutions may not be willing or able to influence the prescribing activity of other physicians, or to do so within a timeframe that will impact BiDil prescriptions in the near term. Furthermore, our indirect marketing efforts may not be successful in maintaining market awareness of BiDil with current and potential prescribers. If we decide to expand our marketing reach for BiDil, we will likely pursue sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, including co-promotion arrangements. We may not be able to successfully enter into sales, marketing and/or distribution agreements with third parties on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. If we decide to rely on third-party entities for sales, marketing and distribution support, our future revenues for BiDil will depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. If the government or third-party payors do not reimburse patients for BiDil, or do not reimburse for BiDil at favorable levels, BiDil might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. Our revenues and profits depend heavily upon the availability of coverage and favorable reimbursement for the use of BiDil from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors. Reimbursement by a third party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; 21 · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors in order for patients to be reimbursed for the cost of a product, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors conduct clinical reviews of pharmaceutical products to determine whether a product is safe, effective and medically necessary. These third-party payors may find that BiDil is not sufficiently effective to justify reimbursement approval or that the effectiveness of BiDil does not justify its cost. In addition, third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of BiDil. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products, if at all. Furthermore, some third-party payors may consider the generically available individual components of BiDil to be substitutable for, or therapeutically equivalent to, BiDil, despite the lack of FDA approval for the use of those individual components in the treatment of heart failure. This misconception among third-party payors may further limit our ability to obtain preferential reimbursement, if at all, from those third-party payors. Even after reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payer, we may lose that reimbursement entirely, or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. In addition, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of BiDil. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for BiDil may cause our revenues to decline. Any failure by us to obtain reimbursement for BiDil, or to secure a preferred form of reimbursement that reduces costs to patients, may negatively impact market acceptance of BiDil and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from sales. Many private insurers, and many of the Medicare Part D plans that cover BiDil, cover the product at the Tier III level. Tier level is a term generally used to denote the level of reimbursement and, consequently, the level of patient co-pay, for a product that is approved by a third-party payor. At Tier III, patient co-pays are at a significantly higher level than they would be at Tier II, ranging from approximately $30.00 to $50.00 per prescription. Tier II reimbursement denotes a preferential level of reimbursement at which patient co-pays range from approximately $15.00 to $30.00 per prescription. We may not be able to obtain reimbursement coverage for BiDil from many private insurers or Medicare Part D plans or, even if we obtain such coverage, we may not be able to obtain preferential reimbursement treatment. Any failure by us to secure such coverage, or to secure it at preferential levels, would have a substantially negative effect on sales of BiDil, market acceptance of BiDil would be negatively impacted and our ability to generate revenues from sales would be significantly impaired. Although we have been added to preferred formularies covering approximately 50% of insured African Americans over the age of 45, we have not achieved preferential reimbursement on all plans. Furthermore, we cannot know if BiDil will continue to be listed on any of these plans at a preferential reimbursement level, if at all. In addition, although preferential reimbursement for BiDil removes a financial barrier to accessing the product, it does not require or guarantee that physicians will prescribe the drug. Accordingly, we cannot assess the impact that the current listing of BiDil on any given plan will have on our future revenues, if any. 22 Physicians, third-party payors and patients may not be receptive to BiDil, which could prevent us from achieving profitability. Our business is substantially dependent on market acceptance of BiDil. We currently market BiDil only in the United States, and key participants in the U.S. pharmaceutical marketplace, such as physicians, third-party payors and patients, may not accept and use BiDil. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of BiDil include: · the availability of favorable government and third-party payor reimbursement; · the ability to produce and sell BiDil at a competitive price; · the availability in generic form of the individual components that constitute BiDil and the misperception that these generic components are equivalent to BiDil; · the failure of physicians, third-party payors and patients to accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on ethnicity; · the success of our promotional programs, which will be centralized in nature going forward; · the timing of our receipt of marketing approval, if any, for our next-generation BiDil product, BiDil XR, or for any expansion of our current label for BiDil, such as extended product dating or inclusion of new data; · the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of BiDil; and · the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals outside the U.S., the terms of any non-U.S. approval, including labeling requirements and/or limitations, and the countries in which approvals are obtained, if any. The availability of lower priced generic forms of the components of BiDil may adversely affect our sales of BiDil and the pricing or reimbursement we are able to obtain for BiDil. BiDil is a fixed-dosed combination of two individual components, both of which are available in generic form and are separately marketed (isosorbide dinitrate for angina and hydralazine hydrochloride for hypertension), in dosages similar to those we include in BiDil, at prices substantially below the prices we are charging for BiDil. While neither of these two generic drugs is approved for the treatment of heart failure, as a practical matter it may be impossible for us to prevent physicians from prescribing a combination of these two, lower cost generic drugs as a substitute for prescribing BiDil. If substantial numbers of physicians prescribe the combination of these two generic drugs, rather than BiDil, we could fail to achieve the sales of BiDil necessary for successful commercialization which would severely limit our ability to generate revenue from the sales of BiDil. Our ability to generate revenue could also be limited if: · potential large purchasers of BiDil, such as hospitals or health maintenance organizations, require substitution of these generic drugs for BiDil; · state formularies, other government agencies or private payors that approve reimbursement for drugs require substitution of these generic drugs for BiDil; or · the availability of these generic drugs reduces the price or reimbursement amounts we are able to achieve for BiDil. 23 We will require substantial additional amounts of cash to fund our operating plan, including commercializing BiDil and seeking to develop and commercialize BiDil XR, and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. We have used and will continue to require substantial funds to manufacture, market and sell BiDil during 2007 and beyond. We also expect to incur additional expenses relating to the ongoing development of BiDil XR, which is currently commencing clinical development. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity and cash expected to be generated from future operations will be sufficient to fund the current business plan for at least the next twelve months. However, our future capital requirements, and the period in which we expect our current cash to support our operations, may vary from what we expect due to a number of factors, including the following: · the magnitude of product sales of BiDil; · the successful commercialization of BiDil; · the cost of manufacturing, marketing and selling BiDil; · the timing of when we receive significant revenue from BiDil, if at all; · the time and costs involved in completing the clinical trials and further development of, and obtaining regulatory approvals for, BiDil XR, if at all; · our ability to establish and maintain co-promotion, out-licensing and collaborative arrangements; · the timing, receipt and amount of royalties, milestone and other payments, if any, from potential collaborators; · the effect of competing technological and market developments; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; and · the cost of obtaining and maintaining licenses to use patented technologies. We will require additional funding in the future and may seek to do so through collaborative co-promotion arrangements and/or public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing stockholders will result. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be compelled to significantly curtail our marketing efforts for BiDil and/or our development efforts with respect to BiDil XR. We may also be compelled to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products. We do not have the internal technology to successfully develop BiDil XR and our success will depend on our ability to co-develop such technology with a collaborative partner. Although we intend to pursue the development of BiDil XR as expeditiously as possible, we do not currently have the internal technology to pursue this development on our own. The technology underlying extended release formulations of pharmaceutical products is highly proprietary and would take years and the expenditure of significant amounts of capital for us to develop. We have entered into a license agreement with Elan, pursuant to which we have licensed proprietary extended release technology which we believe is compatible for use with BiDil. We have done extensive preclinical development with Elan, but we cannot be sure that our development efforts will result in a successful extended release formulation of BiDil. 24 We cannot be certain that clinical testing of BiDil XR will be successful, nor can we be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for BiDil XR. We cannot predict whether the results of any clinical studies conducted with respect to BiDil XR will be successful. Furthermore, we cannot predict the number or the type of clinical trials that will be necessary to adequately support a marketing application for BiDil XR, nor can we predict the amount of time that will be required in order to complete those clinical trials. The fact that BiDil is a combination of two active ingredients (isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride) may further complicate the development of the extended release formulation. Depending on the results of initial clinical studies, additional testing with alternate formulations of BiDil XR may also be required. If these studies and testing are not successful, we will incur increased costs and the filing for marketing approval of BiDil XR with the FDA and other health authorities will be significantly delayed. We could also experience delays or failures in clinical trials for a number of other reasons. For example: · the results from early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; · we may encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing sufficient quantities of BiDil XR used in any clinical trials; · the timing and completion of clinical trials of BiDil XR depend on, among other factors, the number of patients we will be required to enroll in the clinical trials and the rate at which those patients are enrolled and any increase in the required number of patients, decrease in recruitment rates or difficulties retaining study participants may result in increased costs, program delays or program termination; · BiDil XR may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may prevent or limit its commercial use; · we, along with our collaborators and subcontractors, may not employ, in any capacity, persons who have been debarred under the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy. Employment of such a debarred person (even if inadvertently) may result in delays in FDA’s review or approval of our products, or the rejection of data developed with the involvement of such person(s); and · institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA, or our collaborators may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of BiDil XR for various reasons, including failure to achieve established success criteria, noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. In addition, even if clinical testing of BiDil XR is successful, we still may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for BiDil XR. The FDA may conclude that the data provided is insufficient and may require that we perform additional studies. If we are ultimately unable to produce a formulation of BiDil XR that meets regulatory requirements, if we are delayed in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for BiDil XR, or if we are required by the FDA to conduct large-scale outcomes studies, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize this product and our ability to generate revenue from BiDil XR will be materially impaired. The development and future commercialization of BiDil XR may be terminated or delayed, and the cost of development and future commercialization may increase, if third parties on whom we rely to manufacture BiDil XR do not fulfill their obligations. We do not have manufacturing capabilities for BiDil XR and have no current plans to develop any such capacity in the future. In order to continue to develop BiDil XR, apply for regulatory approvals and 25 commercialize this product, we plan to rely on our collaborative licensor, Elan, for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of BiDil XR. Although we are in the process of negotiating a manufacturing and supply agreement with Elan, we may not be able to finalize an agreement on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. The cGMP requirements govern, among other things, quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation of policies and procedures. Other than through contract, we do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our present or future contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP and other FDA requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Any failure by our contract manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidate, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of such product candidate, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. To the extent that third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fail to perform their obligations in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including: · we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of BiDil XR; · we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for BiDil XR; and · even if we successfully commercialize BiDil XR, we may be required to cease distribution and/or recall some or all batches of the product and we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products or achieve profitability. Currently, we are engaging in limited internal research and development activities and, accordingly, our ability to generate future revenue from our nitric oxide technology portfolio is completely dependent on our ability to enter into scientifically and commercially successful out-licensing or collaborative arrangements with third parties. At the end of the first quarter of 2006, we scaled back our research and development staff in a restructuring of our company and have limited our internal research and development activities to the continued development of BiDil XR. We are currently seeking out-licensing and collaboration opportunities for our other potential product candidates based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology, including NMI-3377, a pre-clinical cardio-renal compound. The application of our proprietary nitric oxide technology is unproven in humans and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully out-license any products based on this technology. Our product candidates include nitric oxide enhancements of existing drugs; in these cases, we are modifying compounds whose chemical and pharmacological profiles are well-documented and understood. Many of our potential product candidates, however, are new molecules with chemical and pharmacological profiles that differ from that of the existing drugs. These compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties shown in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. In addition, it is possible that existing drugs or newly-discovered drugs may not benefit from the application of our nitric oxide technology. We may not be able to secure out-licensing or collaboration partners for these potential product candidates. Even if we are successful in entering into out-licensing or collaborative arrangements with respect to our potential product candidates, we have no assurance that we will be able to secure such arrangements on terms completely favorable to us. If our out-licensing or collaboration 26 arrangements include unfavorable financial terms, our ability to generate revenue from our technology portfolio will be severely limited. Additional factors that may affect the success of our potential future collaborations include the following: · our future licensing partners or collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the product candidate which they have licensed from us or will be collaborating with us and which could affect their commitment to our future collaboration; · future reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our licensing partners or collaborators would reduce our revenues, which would be based on a percentage of net sales by the partner or collaborator; · our future licensing partners or collaborators may terminate their agreements with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new partners or collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; and · our future licensing partners or collaborators may pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect a partner’s or collaborator’s commitment to us. As a result of the foregoing factors, our potential strategic partners or collaborators may not be successful in developing and commercializing any products based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology. Any failure of such potential partners or collaborators at any stage of the development or commercialization process with respect to our potential product candidates would significantly reduce the possibility that we would realize any future revenue from our technology portfolio. Because we have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1992. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a net loss of $71.3 million. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $313.8 million. We expect that we will continue to incur substantial losses and that our cumulative losses will increase as our commercialization efforts continue. We expect that the losses that we incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. A large portion of our expenses is fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and personnel. We have spent significant amounts to launch our first product, BiDil, and we expect to incur significant operating expenses in connection with our ongoing commercialization activities related to BiDil. We received approval for BiDil from the FDA on June 23, 2005, and launched commercial sales of BiDil in July 2005. We have also spent significant amounts to fund research, development and commercialization of our product candidates and to enhance our core technologies. Currently, our research and development activities are limited to the continued development of BiDil XR. We are not engaging in any internal research and development activities with respect to other potential product candidates and, therefore, do not expect to incur substantial research and development expenses in the near term. Although we currently estimate that our operating expenses will decrease in fiscal year 2007, we will still need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. We are currently unable to estimate the level of revenues that we will realize from the commercialization of BiDil. We are therefore unable to estimate when we will achieve profitability, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital or continue our operations. 27 Our BiDil product revenues have been and will continue to be subject to considerable variation due to the significant reduction in our direct sales force, volatility in prescription volume, the manner in which we account for product sales considering product returns rates, level of discounts incurred, the level of purchases by individual customers and other matters related to the commercialization of this product. We have experienced and are likely to continue to experience significant revenue deferrals and product returns, as well as additional charges and expenses associated with stocking incentives, rebates, discounts, and other promotional incentives, and other matters related to the commercialization of this product. Significant inventory adjustments may also occur due to sales forecast variances or other factors. Any deferrals, returns or adjustments that negatively impact revenue, or our failure, for this or any other reason, to generate significant near-term revenue growth, would reduce our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. If the third-party manufacturer of BiDil encounters delays or difficulties in production, we may not be able to meet demand for the product and we may lose potential revenue, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We do not manufacture BiDil and have no plans to do so. We engaged Schwarz Pharma under a five-year exclusive manufacturing and supply agreement solely for the three times daily immediate release dosage formulation of BiDil. Under the supply agreement, we have the right to engage a backup manufacturer but do not currently have any backup manufacturing agreement in place. The terms of the supply agreement provide that it may be terminated by either us or Schwarz Pharma under specified circumstances, including a material breach of the supply agreement by either party, the occurrence of a payment default by us, our material impairment of the manufacturing licenses we have granted to Schwarz Pharma or a failure of Schwarz Pharma to supply conforming products. In addition, either party may terminate the supply agreement in the event the FDA takes any action, the result of which is to permanently prohibit the manufacture, sale or use of the product. Furthermore, Schwarz Pharma may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include, but are not limited to: · difficulties with production costs and yields; · quality control and assurance; · difficulties obtaining ingredients for our products; · shortages of qualified personnel; · compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and · lack of capital funding. If we are unable to maintain a commercially reasonable manufacturing agreement for the production of BiDil with Schwarz Pharma, we have no back-up manufacturing facility and thus we would not be able to manufacture and sell BiDil until another facility was qualified. The number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture finished products for us on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange, qualify, and receive necessary regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for alternative manufacturing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract for third-party manufacturing, or if Schwarz Pharma or any other third-party manufacturer of BiDil fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our product and we may lose potential revenues, all of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 28 We rely on a single source supplier for one of the two active ingredients in BiDil, and the loss of this supplier could prevent us from selling BiDil, which would materially harm our business. We rely on Sumitomo Corp. for our supply of hydralazine hydrochloride, one of the two active ingredients in BiDil. Sumitomo is currently the only supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride worldwide. We do not have any agreement with Sumitomo regarding the supply of hydralazine hydrochloride. If Sumitomo stops manufacturing or is unable to manufacture hydralazine hydrochloride, or if we are unable to procure hydralazine hydrochloride from Sumitomo on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue to sell BiDil on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, because Sumitomo is currently the sole supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride, Sumitomo has unilateral control over the price of hydralazine hydrochloride. Any increase in the price for hydralazine hydrochloride may reduce our gross margins and adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. If our collaborative partners do not obtain and maintain the regulatory approvals required to market and sell our potential nitric-oxide based product candidates in the United States, then our business may be unsuccessful, and the market price of our stock may substantially decline. We are currently seeking out-licensing and collaboration opportunities for our potential product candidates based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology, including NMI-3377, a pre-clinical cardio-renal compound. Our partners will not be able to market any of our potential nitric-oxide based product candidates in the United States without marketing approval from the FDA. The process of obtaining FDA approval of pharmaceutical products is costly, complex and time consuming. Any new pharmaceutical product must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. The drug approval process is affected by such factors as: · the severity of the disease; · the quality of the regulatory submission; · the drug’s clinical efficacy and safety; · the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; · the manufacturing facility’s compliance with cGMP requirements and other applicable regulatory requirements; · the availability of alternative treatments; · the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and · the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. The regulatory process to obtain market approval for a new drug takes many years and requires substantial expenditures. There can be no assurance that our strategic partners will be successful in obtaining FDA approval for our potential nitric-oxide based product candidates. If our strategic partners do not receive the required regulatory approval or clearance to market any of our potential product candidates, these partners will not be able to develop and commercialize these product candidates, which will significantly impair our ability to realize revenue from these product candidates and which will likely affect our ability to achieve profitability and cause the market price of our common stock to substantially decline. We or our potential strategic collaborators may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in order to market and sell BiDil, or our product candidates, in foreign countries. Our marketing approval for BiDil is limited to the United States. Until we or our potential strategic collaborators obtain the required regulatory approvals for BiDil or any potential product candidates in any 29 specific foreign country, neither we nor our collaborators will be able to sell these products in that country. International regulatory authorities have imposed numerous and varying regulatory requirements, and the approval procedures could involve testing in addition to that required by the FDA. Furthermore, approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by any other regulatory authority. In addition, if we enter into collaborative partnerships in order to obtain foreign regulatory approval for BiDil or any of our product candidates, we may be dependent upon these collaborators to conduct clinical or other testing and to obtain such regulatory approvals. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain final regulatory approvals for BiDil or for any of our other potential product candidates in foreign countries. Any failure to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested could delay, or even preclude, us or our licensees or other collaborators from marketing BiDil or our product candidates, or limit the commercial use of BiDil or our product candidates in these foreign jurisdictions. Alternatively, foreign regulatory approvals may entail limitations on the indicated uses of BiDil or our product candidates and impose labeling requirements which may also adversely impact our ability to market BiDil or our product candidates. Even if we or our strategic partners obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed products, including BiDil, will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and oversight. If we, or our strategic partners, fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market BiDil, our strategic partners could lose approvals to market our out-licensed products based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology, and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any products we or our potential strategic partners develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and restrictions, including the review of clinical results which are reported after such products are made commercially available, and restrictions on the indications for which we or our potential strategic partners can market the product. The FDA can propose to withdraw approval if new clinical data or experience shows that a product is not safe for use under the approved conditions of use. The FDA, we or our potential strategic partners may need to send important information about such products to healthcare providers. The marketing claims we or our potential strategic partners are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our marketed products are limited to those specified in any FDA approval. For example, because BiDil is specifically approved for use by self-identified black patients, we may not promote BiDil for use in other patient populations. We must submit copies of our advertisements and promotional labeling for BiDil, including, for example, professional journal advertisements, website pages, professional direct mailers, direct-to-consumer advertisements, convention booth panels and handouts, to the FDA at the time of initial publication or dissemination. If the FDA believes these materials or statements made by our sales representatives or other company officials promote our products for unapproved indications, the FDA could allege that our promotional activities misbrand our products. Specifically, the FDA could issue an untitled letter or warning letter, which requests, among other things, that we cease such promotional activities, including disseminating the advertisements and promotional labeling, and that we issue corrective advertisements and labeling, including sending letters to healthcare providers. The FDA also could take enforcement action including seizure of allegedly misbranded product, injunction or criminal prosecution against us and our officers or employees. If we repeatedly or deliberately fail to submit such advertisements and labeling to the agency, the FDA could withdraw our approvals. The FDA also monitors manufacturers’ support of continuing medical education, or CME, programs where the programs involve the manufacturers’ or a competitor’s products to ensure that manufacturers do not influence the CME content as a means of promoting their products for off-label uses. In addition, the Department of Justice enforces laws prohibiting kickbacks to healthcare providers and false claims in connection with government-funded reimbursement programs for drug purchases, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and any off-label marketing of BiDil could subject us to civil or criminal prosecution, for which the government could seek to recover substantial monetary penalties, the 30 imposition of restrictions on our marketing activities, and the exclusion of BiDil from eligibility for government reimbursement programs. In addition, the manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to produce BiDil, or that our potential strategic partners may use to produce product candidates based on our nitric oxide technology, are subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. We or our potential strategic partners are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with BiDil or the respective product candidate and make other periodic reports to the FDA. The discovery of any previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Certain changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior FDA approval before the product as modified may be marketed. If we or our potential strategic partners fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our potential strategic partners may be subject to fines, untitled letters, warning letters, civil penalties, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls and seizures, injunctions, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions and penalties. If we, our third-party manufacturers or our service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell BiDil, or any potential product candidates, and harm our reputation. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell BiDil, or any potential product candidates, successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to lower acceptance of BiDil, or any potential product candidates, by the market. These enforcement actions include: · product seizures; · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · patient or physician notifications, including letters to healthcare professionals and corrective advertising; · withdrawal of product approvals; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; · operating restrictions; · fines; · restrictions on importation or exportation of our products; · injunctions; · debarments; · civil and criminal penalties; and · suspension of review of, or refusal to approve, pending applications. If the clinical trials for any product candidates our strategic partners advance into clinical testing are not successful, these partners may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our potential product candidates. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of product candidates that we out-license, our collaborators will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate 31 the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. Our strategic partners may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA or other regulatory agencies to commence or complete these clinical trials. Even if permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are sufficiently safe and effective to permit our strategic partners to obtain marketing approvals from regulatory authorities. Moreover, positive results demonstrated in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials that our strategic partners complete may not be indicative of results obtained in future clinical trials. Furthermore, our collaborators, institutional review boards or regulatory agencies may suspend, hold or terminate clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including failure to achieve established success criteria, noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if it is believed that the patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require our strategic partners to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the filing for marketing approval for those product candidates with the FDA, result in a filing for a narrower indication than was originally sought or result in a decision to discontinue development of those product candidates. The successful completion of our strategic partners’ clinical trials will depend on, among other things, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical protocol, the availability of alternative treatments, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Our strategic partners may be unable to enroll the number of patients we need to complete a trial on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, delays in planned patient enrollment for clinical trials may cause our strategic partners to incur increased costs and delay commercialization. Because we will need to rely on third parties for the development of our product candidates, we will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them on our own. These third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial design. As a result of these factors, third parties on whom we rely may not successfully begin or complete clinical trials on our potential product candidates in a timely manner, if at all. Moreover, if our strategic partners do not successfully develop, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for, and commercialize our products, our future revenues may be materially impaired. The expiration of the research term under our collaboration agreement with Boston Scientific has resulted in the loss of potential royalty-based revenue from the collaboration and may indicate that the development of nitric oxide-enhancing stents is not viable. In November 2001, we entered into a research, development and license agreement with Boston Scientific pursuant to which we granted Boston Scientific an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize certain of our nitric oxide-enhancing compounds for use with their stents or specialty catheters in the area of restenosis. In December 2003, we extended the research collaboration to develop nitric oxide-enhancing paclitaxel-coated stents until December 31, 2005. The research term of this agreement expired on December 31, 2005, although certain rights extend beyond this term. We intend to seek out-licensing and collaboration opportunities for this technology, subject to the terms of our agreement with Boston Scientific and pending resolution of the ongoing rights of the parties with respect to this technology. If we are not able to out-license the technology developed under this agreement, or if we are unable to resolve the ongoing rights of the parties with respect to this technology in a manner favorable to us, we may lose any investment made in the development of, and any potential revenue that may have resulted from, the development, sale or licensing of nitric oxide-enhancing stents. If the estimates we make and the assumptions on which we rely in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary significantly. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates 32 and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges taken by us and related disclosure. Such estimates and judgments include revenue recognition, product returns, the carrying value of our accounts receivable, inventory and property and equipment, our estimates of accrued expenses and liabilities and our estimates of the fair value of equity instruments granted or sold by us. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, our actual financial results may vary significantly from the estimates contained in our financial statements. For a further discussion of the estimates and judgments that we make and the critical accounting policies that affect these estimates and judgments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” below. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Rights Our patent protection for BiDil, the individual components of which are available in generic form, is limited, and we may be subject to generic substitution or competition and resulting pricing pressure. We have no composition of matter patent covering BiDil, our product for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified black patients as an adjunct to current standard therapy. BiDil is a fixed-dose combination of two individual components, isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride, both of which are available in generic form, which are approved and separately marketed, in dosages similar to those we include in BiDil, for indications other than heart failure, at prices below the prices we are charging for BiDil. We have three issued method-of-use patents, one of which covers the use of the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride to reduce the incidence of mortality associated with chronic congestive heart failure, expiring in 2007, and the others covering the treatment of heart failure in black patients, expiring in 2020. As a practical matter, we may not be able to enforce these method-of-use patents to prevent physicians from prescribing isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for the treatment of heart failure in black patients, even though neither drug is approved for such use. We also may not be able to enforce these method-of-use patents to prevent hospitals and pharmacies from supplying such patients with these individual components separately in lieu of BiDil. Other factors may also adversely affect our patent protection for BiDil. If we are successful in marketing BiDil, manufacturers of generic drugs will have an incentive to challenge our patent position. The combination therapy of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride for use in heart failure was developed through lengthy, publicly-sponsored clinical trials conducted during the 1980s, prior to the filing of the patent application that resulted in the 2007 patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. patent office, considered published reports on these clinical trials and concluded that they did not constitute prior art that would prevent the issuance of the 2007 patent. The U.S. patent office also considered the question of whether the 2007 patent constituted prior art with respect to the 2020 patents, and determined that the claims of the 2020 patents were non-obvious and patentable. A court considering the validity of the 2007 or 2020 patents with respect to questions of prior art might be presented with other alleged prior art or might reach conclusions different than those reached by the U.S. patent office. If the 2007 or 2020 patents were to be invalidated or if physicians were to prescribe isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for heart failure in black patients, our BiDil revenue could be significantly reduced, we could fail to recover the cost of developing BiDil and BiDil might not be a viable commercial product. 33 If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to secure out-licensing or collaborative arrangements with respect to our product candidates will be harmed, and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we developed under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, in order to prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. Because certain United States patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. Prior to the restructuring of our research and development activities, our intellectual property strategy depended on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications or maintain all issued patents at a reasonable cost. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable; even if we have obtained patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issued patents and patent applications for our product candidates and nitric oxide technology include claims with respect to both the composition of specific products or compounds and specific methods of using these products or compounds in therapeutic areas. In some cases, like BiDil, our only patent protection is with respect to the method of using a product or compound, and we do not have patent claims covering the underlying composition of the product or compound. Method-of-use patents may provide less protection for our product candidates and products because it may be more difficult to prove direct infringement against a pharmaceutical manufacturer or distributor once they have gained approval for an alternative indication. In addition, if any other company gains FDA approval for an indication separate from the one we or our potential strategic partners are pursuing and markets a product that we or our potential strategic partners expect to market under the protection of a method-of-use patent, physicians will be able to prescribe that product for use in the indication for which we or our potential strategic partners have obtained approval, even though the product is not approved for such indication. As a practical matter, we or our potential strategic partners may not be able to enforce our method-of-use patents against physicians prescribing products for such off-label use. Off-label use and any resulting off-label sales could make it more difficult to obtain the price we or our potential strategic partners would otherwise wish to achieve for, or to successfully commercialize, our products. In addition, in those situations where we have only method-of-use patent coverage for a product candidate, it may be more difficult to find a pharmaceutical company partner to license or support development of our product candidate. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the U.S. patent office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change over time. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a 34 patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce our patent rights, we would incur substantial costs and expenses, as well as substantial liability for damages, and/or we, or our strategic partners, could be required to stop product development and commercialization efforts. A third party may sue us or our potential strategic partners for infringing on its patent rights. Likewise, we or our potential strategic partners may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us or our potential strategic partners of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our or our partner’s favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert management efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, our strategy of providing nitric oxide-enhancing versions of existing products could lead to more patent litigation due to the fact that the markets for these existing products are very large and competitive. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. For example, we have filed an opposition in the European Patent Office, or EPO, to revoke NicOx S.A.’s European Patent No. 904 110, which we refer to as EP ’110. This patent is directed to the use of organic compounds containing a nitrate group or inorganic compounds containing a nitric oxide group to reduce the toxicity caused by certain drugs, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The basis for our opposition, in part, is that the claims in EP ’110 are anticipated and therefore invalid if they are construed to cover a single compound chemically linked to a nitrate moiety. While we believe that the claims in EP ’110 will be invalidated, or be narrowed, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of the opposition. If the EPO finds that there are valid claims in EP ’110 that cover compounds chemically linked to nitrates, we may be adversely affected in our ability to market our product candidates for reducing gastrointestinal toxicity without first obtaining a license from NicOx, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If any parties are able to successfully claim that the creation or use by us or our potential strategic partners of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we or our potential strategic partners might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we or our potential strategic partners are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we or our potential strategic partners might have to pay, a court could require us or our potential strategic partners to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license on terms that are unfavorable to us. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we or our potential strategic partners fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we or our potential strategic partners may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating sufficient revenue to sustain our operations. We in-license a significant portion of our principal proprietary technologies, and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to commercializing BiDil and out-licensing our other product candidates. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that are necessary for our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize BiDil pursuant to a license agreement with Dr. Jay N. Cohn, and some of our intellectual property rights relating to nitric oxide compounds have been obtained pursuant to license agreements with the Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Boston University. In addition, we may enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, 35 diligence, and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which would result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. Risks Relating to our Industry We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to treble damages based on the reimbursements by federal healthcare programs, civil money penalties (including penalties levied on a per false claim basis), restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. It is possible that we could become subject to such litigation and, if we are not successful in defending against it, such litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act, even if successful, would also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, which may result in others commercializing products more successfully than ours. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our principal competitors in the markets we have targeted, including cardiovascular disease, are large, multinational pharmaceutical companies that have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do and are conducting extensive research and development activities on technologies and product candidates similar to or competitive with ours. Many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in pharmaceutical development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product marketing and manufacturing. As a result, they may: · develop and commercialize products that render BiDil obsolete or non-competitive or that cause our product candidates to be less desirable as a result of patent or non-patent exclusivity; 36 · develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive or more effective than BiDil; · commercialize competing products before our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; · initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; · have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; · more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and · take advantage of product acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. There are a number of companies currently marketing and selling products to treat heart failure in the general population that will compete with BiDil. These include GlaxoSmithKline, plc, which currently markets Coreg®, Merck & Co., Inc., which currently markets Vasotec® and Astra Zeneca, plc, which currently markets Toprol XL®. We also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking to develop drugs using nitric oxide technology. For example, we are aware of at least seven companies working in the area of nitric oxide based therapeutics. These companies are: Angiogenix Inc., GB Therapeutics, NicOx S.A., OxoN Medica, RenoPharm, Vasopharm BIOTECH GmbH and Nitrox LLC. We may be exposed to product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Our commercial product liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, any insurance that we do obtain may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities, and our capital resources could be depleted as a result. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other biopharmaceutical companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2006, our stock price has ranged from a low of $2.04 per share (on October 13, 2006) to a high of $27.99 per share (on February 2, 2005). The following factors, among others, may affect the price of our common stock: · fluctuations in our financial results, including with respect to sales of BiDil; · announcements concerning fundamental or material corporate transactions, restructuring or the like; · general market conditions; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · announcements of actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by our potential strategic partners or our competitors’ products; 37 · governmental regulations and regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries affecting us or our competitors; · disputes relating to patents or other proprietary rights affecting us, our potential strategic partners or our competitors; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us, our potential strategic partners or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; · fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market in general, or in the trading of the stock of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, that are unrelated to our operating performance; · issuances of securities in equity, debt or other financings; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and · the perception that such issuances or sales could occur. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 1, 2007, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, if acting together, will have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change current management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in our company. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include: · a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; · a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and 38 · the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally defined as a person or entity which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Substantially all of our outstanding common stock may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2007, there were 37,259,870 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares may also be resold in the public market at any time. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that are subject to outstanding options. The exercise of these options and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock could cause a further decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may incur significant costs and suffer management distraction and reputational damage from class action litigation. Our stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When the market price of a company’s stock is volatile, holders of that company’s stock may bring securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit was without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 