ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating NitroMed and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to our Business, Strategy and Financial Condition We have recently discontinued active promotional activities related to our only commercially-available product, BiDil, which could significantly adversely affect our future revenue and our ability to continue to fund our operations. Based upon our determination that the successful commercialization of BiDil requires a magnitude of resources that we cannot currently allocate to the program, as well as our plans to conserve cash in order to pursue the development of BiDil XR, in January 2008 we discontinued active promotional activities for BiDil. We concurrently implemented a restructuring plan that includes the elimination of approximately 75 positions by the end of February 2008, reducing headcount from approximately 90 to 15, with an additional reduction in headcount to approximately 10 positions anticipated by the end of April 2008. Although we have discontinued our promotional activities for BiDil, we intend to continue to manufacture and sell BiDil and maintain the product on the market for patients through normal wholesale and retail channels. We expect to incur operating expenses going forward primarily related to our continued development of BiDil XR and to keeping BiDil available on the market. We expect to fund a substantial portion of these operating expenses through ongoing BiDil sales. We expect that the elimination of our sales force and discontinuation of our promotional activities for BiDil could result in a decline in BiDil prescriptions by healthcare providers and could also adversely affect third party payors' willingness to provide reimbursement at favorable levels. If physicians do not continue to prescribe BiDil in sufficient quantities, and/or if managed care providers remove BiDil from a preferential reimbursement tier on their plan formularies, then our future revenue from sales of BiDil will decline significantly, and we may not generate sufficient capital to fund our continued operations, including with respect to our planned development of BiDil XR. We are evaluating strategic alternatives that may involve the divestiture of some or all of our business. If we are unable to effect one or more of such strategic alternatives, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our business and may be required to substantially curtail or cease our operations. In conjunction with our January 2008 restructuring plan, in which we ceased active promotion of BiDil and significantly reduced our workforce, we are evaluating strategic alternatives to divest our current business in whole or in part in our effort to maximize the value of our commercial organization and product development programs for our shareholders. We have engaged an investment bank to advise us in considering these potential strategic alternatives, which may include the sale, license or divestiture of certain of our assets, including our BiDil business, the assets relating to BiDil XR and/or our nitric oxide technologies, the sale or merger of our company, or other similar strategic transactions. We do not know that our evaluation of strategic alternatives will result in one or more such transactions being successfully consummated or, if successful, that any such transaction would achieve our goal of maximizing the value of our organization and programs for our stockholders. As we evaluate strategic options intended to maximize shareholder value for our company, we intend to execute on our business strategy of ceasing active promotional efforts for BiDil while devoting substantially all of our resources to supporting ongoing BiDil prescriptions and the continued development of BiDil XR. If we are unable to successfully consummate one or more strategic transactions relating to our business, we may not have sufficient capital to execute on our current business plan and could be required to further curtail or cease our operations. 15 We have a history of operating losses and we will require substantial additional amounts of cash to fund our operating plan, including our plans to support any continued sales of BiDil and seek to develop and commercialize BiDil XR. If additional capital is not available, we will need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1992. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $31.6 million. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $345.4 million. We expect that we will continue to incur substantial losses and that our cumulative losses will increase as we continue our efforts to develop BiDil XR and support ongoing prescriptions for BiDil. We expect that the losses that we incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. In January 2008, we ceased actively promoting sales of BiDil, which is our only significant source of revenue. We intend to continue incurring costs relating to supporting ongoing BiDil prescriptions, and we also expect to incur additional expenses relating to the ongoing development of BiDil XR. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity and the cash expected to be generated from future sales of BiDil, together with the significant reduction in expenditures as a result of our January 2008 restructuring, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our future capital requirements, and the period in which we expect our current cash to support our operations, may vary from what we expect due to a number of factors, including the following: •the amount of future product sales of BiDil; •the cost of manufacturing and selling BiDil; •the timing of collections related to sales of BiDil; •the time and costs involved in completing the clinical trials and further development of, and obtaining regulatory approvals for, BiDil XR, if at all; •our ability to successfully consummate one or more strategic arrangements relating to our business and assets; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; and •the cost of maintaining licenses to use patented technologies. Our business plan is to seek to divest all or substantially all of our business through a merger, asset sale, license, business combination or the like. However, if and for so long as we continue our current business and operations, we will require substantial additional funds, which we expect to generate through a combination of BiDil sales and one or more strategic transactions. However, we may not be able to successfully consummate a strategic transaction, and additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, whether through a strategic divestiture, financing or borrowing arrangements or other capital-raising transaction, we may not be able to support continued prescriptions for BiDil, we may be compelled to significantly curtail or delay our development efforts with respect to BiDil XR, and we could also be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations, any of which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 A substantial portion of our short-term investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities which have faced recent market failures. Failures in these auctions may affect our liquidity. At March 3, 2008, we held approximately $7.6 million of investments with an auction reset feature, referred to as auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are securities that are structured to allow for short-term interest rate resets, but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, which occurs every seven to 35 days, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. During early February 2008, the majority of auction rate securities in the marketplace failed at auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. In the event that we need to access our investments in these types of securities, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities, a buyer is found outside the auction process, or the securities mature, which could be in as much as 30 years. In the future, should we experience additional auction failures and/or determine that these declines in value of auction rate securities are other than temporary, we would recognize a loss in our statement of operations, which could be material. In addition, any future failed auctions may adversely impact the liquidity of our investments. If we fail to achieve and maintain the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. On February 28, 2008, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market's Listing Qualifications Department providing notification that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market, referred to as the minimum bid price rule. NASDAQ stated in such notification that, in accordance with the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, we have 180 calendar days, or until August 26, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. The NASDAQ notification also states that if, at any time before August 26, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance with the minimum bid price rule. However, NASDAQ may, in its discretion, require that we maintain a bid price of in excess of $1.00 for a period in excess of 10 days, but generally no more than 20 days, before determining that we have demonstrated the ability to maintain long-term compliance. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by August 26, 2008, NASDAQ will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist our securities to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. We can not assure you that any such appeal, if made, would be successful. Alternatively, in the event such delisting is based solely upon non-compliance with the minimum bid price rule, we could apply to transfer our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market, provided that we satisfy the requirements for initial listing on such market, other than the minimum bid price rule. If such an application were approved and we otherwise maintain the listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market, other than the minimum bid price requirement, we would be afforded the remainder of The NASDAQ Capital Market's second 180 calendar day grace period in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. There are many factors that may adversely affect our minimum bid price, including those described throughout this section titled "Risk Factors." Many of these factors are outside of our control. As a result, we may not successfully regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Even if we regain compliance in the near term, we may not be able to sustain such compliance in the long term. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule and elect to appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist our securities to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, such appeal may not be successful. Furthermore, our potential inability to maintain compliance with other listing requirements between 17 now and August 26, 2008, or in any future period, could result in delisting even if we achieved compliance with the minimum bid price rule during such time. A delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market would make it more difficult our stockholders to sell our common stock in the public market and would likely result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility for our common stock. If we do not maintain an adequate level of revenue from sales of BiDil given our lack of promotional activities, the availability of cash to fund our planned development of BiDil XR will significantly decline, our BiDil XR development efforts may not be successful and our business may fail. Our current strategy is to continue to advance the development of BiDil XR while simultaneously seeking strategic alternatives to divest all or substantially all of our current business. We will depend upon continued sales of BiDil to fund a substantial portion of our costs and expenses to develop BiDil XR. We have recently discontinued all promotional activities relating to BiDil, and we intend only to expend the resources necessary to maintain BiDil on the market for patients through normal wholesale and retail channels. As a result of our lack of promotional efforts for BiDil, sales of BiDil may decline rapidly. Our inability to successfully generate further revenue from BiDil sales will adversely affect our ability to seek to advance the development of BiDil XR, in which case we may be required to further curtail or cease our operations. Factors that we believe may materially adversely affect continued sales of BiDil, and may also affect sales of BiDil XR, if it is successfully developed and commercialized, include: •the discontinuation of our promotional programs as a result of our January 2008 restructuring plan; •the unavailability of favorable government and third-party payor reimbursement; •our inability to manufacture and sell BiDil at a competitive price; •the availability in generic form and at substantially lower prices of the individual components that constitute BiDil (isosorbide dinitrate, which is separately marketed for angina, and hydralazine hydrochloride, which is separately marketed for hypertension) and the misperception by physicians, patients and payors that these generic components are equivalent to BiDil; •the requirement by potential large purchasers of BiDil, such as hospitals or health maintenance organizations, or by state formularies, other government agencies or private payors that approve reimbursement for drugs, that the generic components of BiDil be substituted for BiDil; •the failure of physicians, third-party payors and patients to accept a product intended to improve therapeutic results based on ethnicity or to accept BiDil as being safe, effective, easy to administer and medically necessary; and •our inability to maintain the necessary patent protection, licenses and regulatory approvals required to manufacture and sell BiDil. If the third-party manufacturer of BiDil encounters delays or difficulties in production, we may not be able to meet demand for the product and we may lose potential revenue, which would adversely affect our financial results and our ability to execute our business plan. We do not physically manufacture BiDil and have no plans to do so. We have engaged Schwarz Pharma under a five-year exclusive manufacturing and supply agreement solely for the three times daily immediate release dosage formulation of BiDil. Under the supply agreement, we have the right to engage a backup manufacturer but do not currently have any backup manufacturing agreement in place. The terms of the supply agreement provide that it may be terminated by either us or Schwarz Pharma under specified circumstances, including a material breach of the supply agreement by either 18 party, the occurrence of a payment default by us, our material impairment of the manufacturing licenses we have granted to Schwarz Pharma or a failure of Schwarz Pharma to supply conforming products. In addition, either party may terminate the supply agreement in the event the FDA takes any action, the result of which is to permanently prohibit the manufacture, sale or use of the product. Furthermore, Schwarz Pharma may encounter difficulties in production. These problems may include, but are not limited to: •difficulties with production costs and yields; •quality control and assurance; •difficulties obtaining ingredients for our products; •shortages of qualified personnel; •compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations; and •lack of capital funding. If we are unable to maintain a commercially reasonable manufacturing agreement for the production of BiDil with Schwarz Pharma, we have no back-up manufacturing facility and thus we would not be able to manufacture and sell BiDil until another facility was qualified. The number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture finished products for us on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange, qualify, and receive necessary regulatory approval for alternative arrangements. We may not be able to contract for alternative manufacturing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract for third-party manufacturing, or if Schwarz Pharma or any other third-party manufacturer of BiDil fails to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet the demand for our product and we may lose potential revenues, all of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline and would adversely affect our financial results and our ability to execute our business plan. We rely on a single source supplier for one of the two active ingredients in BiDil, and the loss of this supplier could prevent us from selling BiDil, which would materially harm our business. We rely on Sumitomo Corp. for our supply of hydralazine hydrochloride, one of the two active ingredients in BiDil. To the best of our knowledge, Sumitomo is currently the only supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride worldwide. We do not have any agreement with Sumitomo regarding the supply of hydralazine hydrochloride. If Sumitomo stops manufacturing or is unable to manufacture hydralazine hydrochloride, or if we are unable to procure hydralazine hydrochloride from Sumitomo on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue to sell BiDil on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, because Sumitomo is currently the sole supplier of hydralazine hydrochloride, Sumitomo has unilateral control over the price of hydralazine hydrochloride. Any increase in the price for hydralazine hydrochloride may reduce our gross margins and adversely affect our ability to sell BiDil at a favorable price. BiDil is subject to ongoing regulatory review and oversight. If we fail to comply with continuing United States regulations, we could lose our approval to market BiDil and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any products we develop are subject to ongoing regulatory review and restrictions, including the review of new clinical results and other post-marketing data. The FDA can propose to withdraw approval or place additional restrictions on indications for which we can market the product or the manner in which we may distribute the product if new clinical data or experience shows that a product is not safe for use under the approved conditions of use. 19 The marketing claims we are permitted to make in labeling or advertising regarding our marketed products must comply with FDA laws and regulations and are limited to those specified in any FDA approval. Although we are not actively marketing BiDil, we could face liability for our previous marketing activities if the FDA believes that we have promoted our products for unapproved indications or otherwise failed to comply with the FDA's promotional labeling or advertising regulations, or guidelines regarding company support for continuing medical education. Based on such allegations, the FDA could issue an untitled letter or warning letter, or take other enforcement action including seizure of allegedly violative product, injunctions or civil or criminal prosecution against us and our officers or employees. In addition, the Department of Justice enforces laws prohibiting kickbacks to healthcare providers and false claims in connection with government-funded reimbursement programs for drug purchases, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and any prior off-label marketing of BiDil could subject us to civil or criminal prosecution, for which the government could seek to recover substantial monetary penalties, the imposition of restrictions on our marketing activities, and the exclusion of BiDil from eligibility for government reimbursement programs. In addition, the manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to produce BiDil are subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with BiDil and make other periodic reports to the FDA. The discovery of any previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Certain changes to an approved product often require prior FDA approval before the product, as modified, may be marketed. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell BiDil successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to lower acceptance of BiDil by the market. These enforcement actions include product seizures; voluntary or mandatory recalls; patient or physician notifications, including letters to healthcare professionals and corrective advertising; withdrawal of product approvals; restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our products; operating restrictions; fines; restrictions on importation or exportation of our products; injunctions; debarments; civil and criminal penalties; and suspension of review of, or refusal to approve, pending applications. Clinical testing of BiDil XR may not be successful, in which case we may be unable to commercialize BiDil XR and the value of our business will substantially decline. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of BiDil XR, we will be required to complete clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of BiDil XR. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials of BiDil XR can occur at any stage of testing. We met with the FDA in December 2007, and the agency agreed that our clinical development plan to conduct bioequivalence and pharmacodynamic studies comparing BiDil XR to the current commercial immediate release formulation of BiDil is acceptable. The agency indicated that such a plan could support FDA approval to commercialize BiDil XR, if bioequivalence is demonstrated. The bioequivalence study design compares the pharmacokinetics of the XR formulation to the pharmacokinetics of the immediate release formulation. Pharmacokinetics refers to the manner in which the body absorbs, distributes, metabolizes and excretes the study drug. The adequacy of the results will ultimately be determined by the FDA during the regulatory review period. Although we are encouraged by this meeting with the FDA, we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or 20 as a result of, our planned clinical trials of BiDil XR that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval for, or commercialize, BiDil XR, including: •conditions imposed on us by the FDA regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; •difficulty obtaining or maintaining IRB approval of studies; •problems in finalizing the formulation of BiDil XR through our planned clinical studies; •our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials, including testing alternative formulations of BiDil XR; •the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays and increased costs; •our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; •we might have to suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; •the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; •the supply or quality of BiDil XR or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate; and •the effects of BiDil XR may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of BiDil XR beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: •be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for BiDil XR; •not be able to obtain marketing approval; •obtain approval for an indication that is not as broad as intended; or •have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether future clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be redesigned or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize BiDil XR, or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to commercialize BiDil XR and may harm our business and results of operations. 21 We currently rely on a third party contract research organization to conduct our clinical trials of BiDil XR. Such third party may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for BiDil XR. We rely on a third party contract research organization to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials of BiDil XR. Our reliance on this third party for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on a third party that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, this third party may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If our third party contract research organization does not successfully carry out its contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for BiDil XR and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize BiDil XR. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize BiDil XR and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. BiDil XR, and the activities associated with its development and commercialization, including testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for BiDil XR will prevent us from commercializing BiDil XR. Securing FDA approval may require the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Our future product, BiDil XR, may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited in scope or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. If any regulatory approval that we obtain is delayed or is limited, we may decide not to commercialize BiDil XR after receiving the approval. 22 The development and future commercialization of BiDil XR may be terminated or delayed, and the cost of development and future commercialization may increase, if third parties on whom we rely to manufacture BiDil XR do not fulfill their obligations. We do not have manufacturing capabilities for BiDil XR and have no current plans to develop any such capacity in the future. In order to continue to develop BiDil XR, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize this product, we plan to rely on our collaborative licensor, Elan, for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of BiDil XR. In addition, contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. The cGMP requirements govern, among other things, quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation of policies and procedures. Other than through contract, we do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our present or future contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP and other FDA requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Any failure by our contract manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of BiDil, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of such product candidate, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to quality control and quality assurance. To the extent that third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fail to perform their obligations in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including: •we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of BiDil XR; •we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for BiDil XR; and •even if we successfully commercialize BiDil XR, we may be required to cease distribution and/or recall some or all batches of the product and we may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products or achieve profitability. Currently, we are engaging in limited internal research and development activities and, accordingly, our ability to generate future revenue from our nitric oxide technology portfolio is completely dependent on our ability to enter into scientifically and commercially successful out-licensing arrangements with third parties. At the end of the first quarter of 2006, we scaled back our research and development staff in a restructuring of our company and have limited our internal research and development activities solely to the continued development of BiDil XR. We are currently seeking out-licensing opportunities for our other potential product candidates based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology. The application of our proprietary nitric oxide technology is unproven in humans and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully out-license any products based on this technology. Our potential product candidates include nitric oxide enhancements of existing drugs; in these cases, we have sought to modify compounds whose chemical and pharmacological profiles are well-documented and understood. Many of our potential product candidates, however, are new molecules with chemical and pharmacological profiles that differ from that of the existing drugs. These compounds may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties shown in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. In addition, it is possible that existing drugs or newly-discovered drugs may not benefit from the application of our nitric oxide technology. We may not be able to secure out-licensing arrangements for these potential product candidates. Even if we are successful in entering into out-licensing arrangements with respect 23 to our potential product candidates, we have no assurance that we will be able to secure such arrangements on terms completely favorable to us. If our out-licensing arrangements include unfavorable financial terms, our ability to generate revenue from our technology portfolio will be severely limited. Additional factors that may affect the success of our potential future out-licensing arrangements include the following: •our future licensing partners may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the product candidate which they have licensed from us and which could affect their commitment to our program; •future reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our licensing partners would reduce our revenues, which could be based on a percentage of net sales by the licensee; •our future licensing partners may terminate their agreements with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new licensees or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; and •our future licensing partners may pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect a licensee's commitment to us. As a result of the foregoing factors, our potential strategic licensees may not be successful in developing and commercializing any products based on our proprietary nitric oxide technology. Any failure of such potential licensees at any stage of the development or commercialization process with respect to our potential product candidates would significantly reduce the possibility that we would realize any future revenue from our technology portfolio. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Rights Our patent protection for BiDil, the individual components of which are available in generic form, is limited, and we may be subject to generic substitution or competition and resulting pricing pressure. We have no composition of matter patent covering BiDil, our product for the treatment of heart failure in self-identified black patients as an adjunct to current standard therapy. BiDil is a fixed-dose combination of two individual components, isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride, both of which are available in generic form, which are approved and separately marketed, in dosages similar to those we include in BiDil, for indications other than heart failure, at prices below the prices we are charging for BiDil. We have two issued method-of-use patents that expire in 2020. One patent covers the use of the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride to reduce mortality associated with chronic congestive heart failure, for improving the oxygen consumption, for improving the quality of life or for improving exercise tolerance in a black patient. The other patent covers the use of the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride in certain dosage amounts for reducing mortality associated with heart failure in a black patient. Our method of use patent that covered the use of the combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride to reduce the incidence of mortality associated with chronic congestive heart failure expired in accordance with its terms in April 2007. We may not be able to enforce our method-of-use patents to prevent physicians from prescribing isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for the treatment of heart failure in black patients, even though neither drug is approved for such use. We also may not be able to enforce these method-of-use patents to prevent hospitals and pharmacies from supplying such patients with these individual components separately in lieu of BiDil. 24 Other factors may also adversely affect our patent protection for BiDil. If we are successful in marketing BiDil, manufacturers of generic drugs will have an incentive to challenge our patent position. The combination therapy of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride for use in heart failure was developed through lengthy, publicly-sponsored clinical trials conducted during the 1980s, prior to the filing of the patent application that resulted in the 2007 patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. patent office, considered published reports on these clinical trials and concluded that they did not constitute prior art that would prevent the issuance of the 2007 patent. The U.S. patent office also considered the question of whether the 2007 patent constituted prior art with respect to the 2020 patents, and determined that the claims of the 2020 patents were non-obvious and patentable. A court considering the validity of the 2020 patents with respect to questions of prior art might be presented with other alleged prior art or might reach conclusions different than those reached by the U.S. patent office. If the 2020 patents were to be invalidated or if physicians were to prescribe isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride separately for heart failure in black patients, our BiDil revenue could be significantly reduced, we could fail to recover the cost of developing BiDil and BiDil might not be a viable commercial product. If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to secure out-licensing arrangements with respect to our potential product candidates will be harmed, and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we developed under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, in order to prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. Because certain United States patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. The process of seeking patent protection for our discoveries is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications or maintain all issued patents at a reasonable cost. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable; even if we have obtained patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issued patents and patent applications for our potential product candidates and nitric oxide technology include claims with respect to both the composition of specific products or compounds and specific methods of using these products or compounds in therapeutic areas. In some cases, like BiDil, our only patent protection is with respect to the method of using a product or compound. Method-of-use patents may provide less protection for our product candidates and products. If another company gains FDA approval for an indication separate from the one claimed in our method-of-use patents, physicians may be able to prescribe that product for use in the approved indication. In addition, physicians may prescribe a product for which we or our potential strategic partners have obtained approval for an unapproved indication for that product. As a practical matter, we or our potential strategic partners may not be able to enforce our method-of-use patents against physicians prescribing products for such off-label use. Off-label use and any resulting off-label sales could make it more difficult to obtain the price we or our potential strategic partners would otherwise wish to achieve for, or to successfully commercialize, our potential products. In addition, in those situations where we have only method-of-use patent coverage for a product candidate, it may be more difficult to find a pharmaceutical company partner to license or support development of our potential product candidates. 25 Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the U.S. patent office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change over time. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to enforce our patent rights, we would incur substantial costs and expenses, as well as substantial liability for damages, and/or we, or our strategic partners, could be required to stop product development and commercialization efforts. A third party may sue us or our potential strategic partners for infringing on its patent rights. Likewise, we or our potential strategic partners may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to seek a declaratory judgment on the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us or our potential strategic partners of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our or our partner's favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert management efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, our strategy of providing nitric oxide-enhancing versions of existing products could lead to more patent litigation due to the fact that the markets for these existing products are very large and competitive. Uncertainties resulting from litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. For example, we filed an opposition in the European Patent Office, or EPO, to revoke NicOx S.A.'s European Patent No. 904 110, which we refer to as EP '110. This patent is directed to the use of organic compounds containing a nitrate group or inorganic compounds containing a nitric oxide group to reduce the toxicity caused by certain drugs, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The basis for our opposition, in part, is that the claims in EP '110 are anticipated and therefore invalid if they are construed to cover a single compound chemically linked to a nitrate moiety. In March 2007, the three-member EPO Opposition Division invalidated all of the claims of EP '110, and the official written decision revoking EP '110 was issued on June 19, 2007. Pursuant to the rules of the EPO, NicOx had an opportunity to file an appeal regarding this invalidation decision. On October 5, 2007, we received notice from the EPO Opposition Division that no appeal had been submitted within the applicable time limit, and accordingly the opposition proceedings are finally terminated. Nevertheless, if any parties are able to successfully claim that the development or use by us or our potential strategic partners of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we or our potential strategic partners might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we or our potential strategic partners are found to have willfully infringed on such parties' patent rights. In addition to any damages we or our potential strategic partners might have to pay, a court could require us or our potential strategic partners to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license on terms that are unfavorable to us. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we or our potential strategic partners fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we or our potential strategic partners may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating sufficient revenue to sustain our operations. 26 We in-license a significant portion of our principal proprietary technologies, and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to commercializing BiDil and out-licensing our other product candidates. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that are necessary for our business. In particular, we have obtained the exclusive right to develop and commercialize BiDil pursuant to a license agreement with Dr. Jay N. Cohn, and some of our intellectual property rights relating to nitric oxide compounds have been obtained pursuant to license agreements with the Brigham and Women's Hospital and Boston University. In addition, we may enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence, and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license or render the license non-exclusive, which would result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. Risks Relating to our Industry We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to treble damages based on the reimbursements by federal healthcare programs, civil money penalties (including penalties levied on a per false claim basis), restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. It is possible that we could become subject to such litigation and, if we are not successful in defending against it, such litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act, even if successful, would also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 We face significant competition, which may result in others commercializing products more successfully than ours. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Moreover, because we have discontinued all promotional activities for BiDil and we have ceased all research and development related to our nitric oxide-based product candidates, our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace has been significantly adversely affected. Our principal competitors are large, multinational pharmaceutical companies that have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do and are conducting extensive research and development activities on technologies and product candidates similar to or competitive with ours. Many of our competitors are more experienced than we are in pharmaceutical development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product marketing and manufacturing. As a result, our competitors may: •develop and commercialize products that render BiDil and/or BiDil XR, if successfully developed and commercialized, obsolete or non-competitive or that cause BiDil to be less desirable as a result of patent or non-patent exclusivity; •develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive or more effective than BiDil; •initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; •have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; •more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and •take advantage of product acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. There are a number of companies currently marketing and selling products to treat heart failure in the general population that will compete with BiDil. These include GlaxoSmithKline, plc, which currently markets Coreg®, Merck & Co., Inc., which currently markets Vasotec® and Astra Zeneca, plc, which currently markets Toprol XL®. We also compete on the basis of the availability in generic form and at substantially lower prices of the individual components that constitute BiDil (isosorbide dinitrate, which is separately marketed for angina, and hydralazine hydrochloride, which is separately marketed for hypertension). Although these generic components are not bioequivalent to BiDil, physicians have, and may in the future, prescribe them in lieu of prescribing BiDil. We also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking to develop drugs using nitric oxide technology. For example, we are aware of at least seven companies working in areas of nitric oxide based therapeutics which may overlap areas in which we have previously engaged in discovery research activities. These companies are: Angiogenix, Inc., Vernalis plc, NicOx S.A., Amulet Pharmaceuticals, Inc., RenoPharm, Vasopharm BIOTECH GmbH and N30 Pharmaceuticals, LLC. We expect to face similar competitive factors with respect to BiDil XR to the extent that BiDil XR is successfully developed and commercialized. We may be exposed to product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Our clinical trial and commercial product liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, any insurance that we do obtain may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities, and our capital resources could be depleted as a result. 28 Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other biopharmaceutical companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2005 to March 1, 2008, our stock price has ranged from a low of $0.80 per share (on January 22, 2008) to a high of $27.99 per share (on February 2, 2005). The following factors, among others, may affect the price of our common stock: •fluctuations in our financial results, including with respect to sales of BiDil; •announcements concerning fundamental or material corporate transactions, restructuring or the like; •general market conditions; •announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; •announcements of actual or potential results relating to our BiDil XR development program; •governmental regulations and regulatory developments in both the U.S. and foreign countries affecting us or our competitors; •disputes relating to patents or other proprietary rights affecting us, our potential strategic partners or our competitors; •public concern as to the safety of products developed by us, our potential strategic partners or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; •fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market in general, or in the trading of the stock of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, that are unrelated to our operating performance; •issuances of securities in equity, debt or other financings; •sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and •the perception that such issuances or sales could occur. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 3, 2008, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 33.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, if acting together, will have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 29 Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change current management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in our company. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include: •a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; •a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and •the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally defined as a person or entity which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Substantially all of our outstanding common stock may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of March 3, 2008, there were 46,125,976 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares may also be resold in the public market at any time. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that are subject to outstanding options and restricted stock awards. The sale of the common stock underlying these options and pursuant to these restricted stock awards after such time as the options and restricted stock awards have vested and become exercisable or free from forfeiture, as the case may be, could cause a further decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may incur significant costs and suffer management distraction and reputational damage from class action litigation. Our stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When the market price of a company's stock is volatile, holders of that company's stock may bring securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit was without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 