ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS References in this section to "we," "us," "our," the "holding company," and "Intervest" refer to Intervest Bancshares Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified. References to the "bank" and our "mortgage lending subsidiary" refer to our principal operating subsidiaries, Intervest National Bank and Intervest Mortgage Corporation, respectively. The following risk factors contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we now believe to be not material could also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all of your investment. WE DEPEND ON OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND OTHER KEY EMPLOYEES TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF WE LOSE THEIR SERVICES. Our success is largely dependent on the business expertise and relationships of a small number of our executive officers and other key employees. Our chairman and chief executive officer, who has been and remains instrumental to our success, is 87 years of age. If the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees were to become unavailable for any reason, the growth, performance and operation of our company and its subsidiaries might be adversely affected because of their skills and knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of real estate lending experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. As a result, our ability to successfully grow our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified officers and employees. OUR LOANS ARE HIGHLY CONCENTRATED IN COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE AND MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGE LOANS, INCREASING THE RISK ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO. Nearly all (99.9%) of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate and multifamily mortgage loans, including loans on substantially vacant properties and vacant land. This concentration increases the risk associated with our loan portfolio. Commercial real estate and multifamily loans are generally considered riskier than many other kinds of loans, like single family residential real estate loans, since these loans tend to involve larger loan balances to single borrowers and repayment of loans secured by income-producing property is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the underlying real estate. Additionally, loans on vacant land typically do not have income streams and depend upon other sources of cash flow from the borrower for repayment. Our average real estate loan size was $2.6 million at December 31, 2005 and we expect that it will continue to increase in the future. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market and economic conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN IN NEW YORK OR FLORIDA COULD HINDER OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE PROFITABLY AND HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATIONS. The properties collateralizing our mortgage loans are heavily concentrated in New York City and Florida, our two primary lending market areas. Accordingly, our business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economies of those geographic areas. At December 31, 2005, mortgages representing approximately 65% and 24% of the principal balance of our total loan portfolio were on properties located in New York State and Florida, respectively. A large number of the loans in New York are secured by properties located in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx. A large number of the loans in Florida are secured by properties located in Clearwater, Tampa, Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Orlando and St. Petersburg. The concentration of our loans in these areas subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect us than if our lending were more geographically diversified. Many of the properties located in the New York City area underlying our mortgage loans are subject to rent control and rent stabilization laws, which limit the ability of property owners to increase rents, which may in turn limit the borrowers' ability to repay those mortgage loans. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a 22 hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. We may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans which would have an adverse impact on our operations. OUR HISTORICAL LEVELS OF BALANCE SHEET GROWTH AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TRENDS MAY NOT CONTINUE IF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY IS NOT SUCCESSFUL. A key component of our business strategy has been and will continue to be our growth, including the attraction of additional deposits and the origination of additional loans. Our ability to sustain continued growth depends upon several factors outside of our control, including economic conditions generally and in our market areas in particular, as well as interest rate trends. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk and asset quality levels and upon acceptable terms, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other expansion of our banking markets. In addition, we have relied historically on a relatively small number of key executives in relation to the size of our company, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage anticipated future growth without additional management staff. Our growth strategy may also limit short-term increases in our profitability, as we dedicate resources to the building of our infrastructure. OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL SUFFER IF WE DO NOT CONTINUALLY IDENTIFY AND INVEST IN MORTGAGE LOANS OR OTHER INSTRUMENTS WITH RATES OF RETURN ABOVE OUR COST OF FUNDS. Our profitability depends primarily on the generation of net interest income which is dependent on the interest rate spread, which is the difference between yields earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our success, in large part, depends on our ability to invest a substantial percentage of our assets in mortgage loans with rates of return that exceed our cost of funds. We may also experience lower rates of return from the investment of our assets, including but not limited to proceeds from the prepayment of loans, in liquid assets such as government securities and overnight funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our net interest margin has ranged from a low of 2.34% for 2000 to a high of 2.90% for 2003, and was 2.70% for the year ended December 31, 2005. CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR EARNINGS. Like many financial institutions, we are subject to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. A significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net income. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurance of our ability to maintain a consistent positive interest rate spread between the yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. There can be no assurances that a sudden and substantial increase in interest rates may not adversely impact our earnings, to the extent that the interest rates borne by assets and liabilities do not change at the same speed, to the same extent, or on the same basis. For a further discussion on interest rate risk, see the sections entitled "Asset and Liability Management" in this report on Form 10-K. IF THE PROPERTIES UNDERLYING MANY OF OUR MORTGAGE LOANS LOSE VALUE, WE MAY SUFFER LOAN LOSSES. Our ability to recover our investment in mortgage loans is solely or primarily dependent on the market value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans because many of our mortgages that we have originated, or will originate in the future, are nonrecourse or limited recourse. Under the terms of nonrecourse mortgages, the owner of the property subject to the mortgage has no personal obligation to repay the mortgage note which the mortgage secures. In some circumstances, we may have limited recourse against the owner with respect to liabilities related to tenant security deposits, proceeds from insurance policies, losses arising under environmental laws and/or losses resulting from waste or acts of malfeasance. In addition, our losses in connection with delinquent and foreclosed loans may be more pronounced because most of our loans do not require repayment of a substantial part of the original principal amount until maturity, and if borrowers default on their balloon payments or if we have a junior 23 lien position, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, since we tend to lend in areas that are in the process of being revitalized, properties securing our loans in these revitalizing neighborhoods may be more susceptible to fluctuations in property values than in more established areas. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. WE MAY HAVE HIGHER LOAN LOSSES THAN WE HAVE ALLOWED FOR, IN WHICH CASE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in order to mitigate the effect of possible losses inherent in our loan portfolio. There is a risk that we may experience losses which could exceed the allowance for loan losses we have set aside. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, which are discussed in the section "Critical Accounting Policies" in this report on Form 10-K. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or federal regulators require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan chargeoffs, we may have to increase our allowance for loan losses or loan chargeoffs which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to protect us against loan losses that we may incur. WE ARE A HIGHLY LEVERAGED COMPANY AND OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND PREVENT US FROM CONTINUING TO GROW OUR BALANCE SHEET. At December 31, 2005, our borrowed funds (exclusive of deposits) and related interest payable was approximately $155.7 million. This level of indebtedness could make it difficult for us to satisfy all of our obligations to the holders of our debt and could limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing to fund our working capital requirements. In addition, the indentures underlying the subordinated debentures of our mortgage lending subsidiary contain financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit its ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our mortgage lending subsidiary has and expects to continue to rely on the issuance of its subordinated debentures in registered, best efforts offerings to the public as a source of funds to support its loan originations. The inability to incur additional indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition by, among other things, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors who may operate on a less leveraged basis. As a result, this may make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our profitability and our stock price. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY AND GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The banking industry is extensively regulated. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, consumers and the Bank Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, referred to in this report as the FDIC, and not stockholders. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board, referred to in this report as the FRB, and the bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, referred to in this report as the OCC. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The bank regulatory agencies have broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. We are subject to regulatory capital requirements, and a failure to meet minimum capital requirements or to comply with other regulations could result in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or otherwise adversely impact our operations. In addition, changes in law, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. 24 WE DEPEND ON BROKERS AND OTHER SOURCES FOR OUR MORTGAGE LENDING ACTIVITIES AND ANY REDUCTION IN REFERRALS COULD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO GROW. We rely significantly on referrals from mortgage brokers for our loan originations. Our ability to maintain our history of growth may depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract referrals from mortgage brokers. If those referrals were to decline or did not continue to expand, there can be no assurances that other sources of loan originations would be available to assure our ability to maintain a level of growth consistent with our historical performance. SINCE WE ENGAGE IN COLLATERAL-BASED LENDING AND MAY BE FORCED TO FORECLOSE ON THE COLLATERAL PROPERTY AND OWN THE UNDERLYING REAL ESTATE, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO THE INCREASED COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE OWNERSHIP OF REAL PROPERTY WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Since we are primarily a collateral-based lender, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default, is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: general or local economic conditions; neighborhood values; interest rates; real estate tax rates; operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; supply of and demand for rental units or properties; ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; zoning laws; governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating a real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect our operating results, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS OF CERTAIN OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS PERMIT THEM TO ENGAGE IN ACTIVITIES THAT MAY BE CONSIDERED TO BE COMPETING WITH OUR SUBSIDIARIES, WHICH MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE BUSINESS OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES. The long-term employment agreements between us or our subsidiaries and certain of our executive officers expressly permit them to engage in outside activities, including activities competitive with our subsidiaries. This may have an adverse effect on the business and financial condition of our subsidiaries. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS OR PREVENT FRAUD. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations require an annual management report on the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation report by the Company's independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Beginning with the Company's annual report for the year ending December 31, 2006, the Company will have to include in its annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a report of management regarding the Company's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the above requirements. In this regard, the Company has begun a process to document and evaluate its internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy these requirements. The process includes dedicating internal resources toward the adoption of a detailed work plan and will also involve the retention of outside consultants. This process is designed to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verify through testing that controls are functioning as documented. To date, the Company has identified certain deficiencies in the design and operating effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, and it believes that they have been corrected or are in the process of being corrected. Although this process is not completed, management is not aware of any "significant deficiencies" or "material weaknesses" in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to report our financial results with the desired degree of accuracy or to prevent fraud. 25 ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH COMMERCIAL LENDING COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, we may be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. WE FACE STRONG COMPETITION IN OUR MARKET AREAS, WHICH MAY LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY. Our market areas, which primarily consist of the New York City area and the Tampa Bay area of Florida, are very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our growth and profitability. We experience competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbanks located within and outside our market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions or institutions with greater resources, lower cost of funds or a more established market presence. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, credit card companies, credit unions, pension funds and securities firms. TERRORIST ACTS AND ARMED CONFLICTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts as well as the war on terrorism may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on the economy in general. Since the properties underlying a high concentration of our mortgage loans are located in New York City, we may be more vulnerable to the adverse impact of such occurrences than other institutions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 26 