ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from estimates, predictions or projections. Risks Related to the Company's Debt The Company's significant level of debt and interest payment obligations may restrict future operations and impair the Company's ability to meet debt obligations. The significant level of debt and demands on the Company's cash resources could have material consequences to the Company's business, including, but not limited to: •making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its financial obligations; •reducing the availability of the Company's cash flows to fund its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other business activities because the Company will be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flows to service its debt obligations; •increasing the Company's vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; •increasing the Company's exposure to interest rate increases because a portion of the Company's borrowings is at variable interest rates; •restricting the Company from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities; •limiting the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry; and •placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors with less relative amounts of debt. 7 Despite the Company's significant level of debt, the Company is permitted to incur more debt, which could intensify the risks described above. The Company may be able to incur significant amounts of debt in the future, subject to compliance with its existing financing arrangements. Although the Company's Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the 7.75% senior unsecured notes due in 2012 (the "Eight-Year Senior Unsecured Notes") contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If new debt is added to the Company's and its subsidiaries' current debt level, the related risks that the Company faces would be magnified. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its debt. The Company's ability to make payments on and to refinance its debt depends on its ability to generate cash in the future, which will be affected by the death rate and general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company's control. The Company cannot assure that its business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to it under its Credit Agreement in amounts sufficient to enable it to service its debt at maturity or otherwise, or to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company is unable to meet its debt obligations or to fund its other liquidity needs, the Company may need to restructure or refinance its debt. The Company's ability to refinance its debt or obtain additional financing will depend on: •its financial condition at the time; •restrictions in agreements governing its debt; and •other factors, including financial market or industry conditions. As a result, it may be difficult for the Company to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to it, or at all. Without this financing, the Company could be forced to sell assets under unfavorable circumstances to make up for any shortfall in its payment obligations. The terms of the Company's Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Eight-Year Senior Unsecured Notes limit the Company's ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. Moreover, substantially all of the Company's assets have been pledged to secure repayment of its debt under the Credit Agreement. In addition, the Company may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable it to meet its obligations. The Company depends on the cash flows from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. Alderwoods Group is a holding company with no independent operations. As a result, Alderwoods Group depends on its subsidiaries to provide cash flows necessary to service debt obligations at the Alderwoods Group level. Alderwoods Group's cash flows and its ability to service its debt depends on the earnings of its subsidiaries and on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments to it by these subsidiaries. The ability of a subsidiary to make any dividend, distribution, loan or other payment to Alderwoods Group or another subsidiary could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. For example, Alderwoods Group's insurance subsidiary is subject to state regulation that restrict distributions, loans and advances to Alderwoods Group and other subsidiaries. Payments by a subsidiary to Alderwoods Group or another subsidiary will also be contingent upon earnings and business considerations of such subsidiary. Because Alderwoods Group depends on the cash flows of subsidiaries to meet its obligations, these types of restrictions may impair Alderwoods Group's ability to make scheduled interest and principal payments on its debt. 8 Restrictive covenants in the Company's Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Eight-Year Senior Unsecured Notes may prevent it from pursuing business activities that could otherwise improve its results of operations. The terms of the Company's Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Eight-Year Senior Unsecured Notes limit its ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur additional debt; •pay dividends or make distributions or redeem or repurchase stock; •make investments; •grant liens; •make capital expenditures; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •sell assets; and •acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. The Company's Credit Agreement also requires it to comply with restrictive covenants and maintain financial ratios. Complying with these restrictive covenants and financial ratios, as well as those that may be contained in any future debt agreements, may impair the Company's ability to finance its future operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. The Company's ability to comply with these restrictive covenants and financial ratios will depend on its future performance, which may be affected by events beyond its control. The Company's failure to comply with any of these covenants or restrictions when they apply will result in a default under the particular debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and, in some cases, the acceleration of debt under other instruments that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. In an event of default, or in the event of a cross-default or cross-acceleration, and if the Company is unable to negotiate a waiver with its lenders, the Company may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under its debt. If the Company is unable to repay amounts owed under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the lenders thereunder may be entitled to sell most or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of many of its subsidiaries to satisfy its obligations under the Credit Agreement. Risks Related to the Company The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The North American death care industry primarily consists of small family-owned businesses. The death care industry in the United States is made up of approximately 22,000 funeral homes and 10,500 cemeteries. The Company believes the three largest public operators in the death care industry in the United States, based on total revenue and number of locations, are Service Corporation International, Alderwoods Group, and Stewart Enterprises, Inc. The Company believes the three largest public death care companies collectively generate approximately 20% of funeral service revenues in the United States. The Company's competition in the markets in which it operates generally arises from one or more of the above public operators in addition to independent operators of funeral homes and cemeteries for at-need and pre-need business. The market share of a single funeral home or cemetery in any community is a function of the name, reputation and location of that funeral home or cemetery although competitive pricing, professional service and attention, and well-maintained locations are also important. Gains in market share within a community are usually realized over a number of years, but losses in market share may occur in a shorter time frame. 9 To compete successfully, the Company's funeral homes and cemeteries must maintain good reputations and high professional standards in the industry, as well as offer attractive products and services at competitive prices. In addition, the Company must market itself in such a manner as to distinguish it from its competitors. The Company has historically experienced price competition from independent funeral home and cemetery operators, and from monument dealers, casket retailers, low-cost funeral providers and other non-traditional providers of services or products. The intense competition the Company faces may force it to reduce prices and thereby its profit margins to retain or recapture its market share. If the Company is unable to successfully compete, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The Company's investments held in trusts are invested in securities, the value of which is affected by financial market conditions that are beyond its control. Cemetery revenue is impacted by perpetual care trust net realized investment income, which the Company recognizes to the extent of allowed reimbursement from the trust when it performs cemetery maintenance services. The Company recognizes trust income on funeral and cemetery merchandise and service trust investments when the underlying pre-need funeral and cemetery contract obligations are fulfilled. The level of trust income is largely dependent on yields on the investments made with trust funds, which are subject to financial market conditions and other factors that are beyond the Company's control. Trust income is also affected by the mix of fixed income and equity securities the Company chooses to maintain in the trust funds, and the Company may not choose the optimal mix for any particular market condition. If earnings from trust funds decline, the Company would likely experience a decline in future revenue and cash flow. In addition, if the trust funds experienced significant investment losses, there would likely be insufficient funds in the trusts to cover the costs of delivering services and merchandise or to maintain cemeteries in the future. The Company would have to cover any such shortfalls with cash flows from operations, which could adversely affect its ability to service debt. The level of pre-need sales and the terms of the Company's pre-need contracts may adversely impact its results of operations and cash flows. The level of pre-need sales is dependent upon the size and experience of the Company's pre-need sales force organization. The Company cannot assure that it will continue to be successful in recruiting and retaining qualified sales people. In addition, depending on the terms of the contract, pre-need sales have the potential to have an initial negative impact on cash flows because of the commissions paid on the sales and the portion of sales proceeds required to be placed into trust or escrow. The Company's commission structure emphasizes contracts with positive cash flows; however, the Company cannot assure that in the future it will not enter into pre-need sales that have a negative impact on cash flows, which could impair its ability to service debt. A weakening economy that causes customer families to have less discretionary income could cause a decline in pre-need sales. Declines in pre-need cemetery property sales would reduce current revenue, and declines in other pre-need sales would reduce the Company's pre-need backlog and future revenue and could reduce future market share. 10 Increasing insurance benefits related to pre-need services funded through life insurance or annuity contracts may not cover future increases in the cost of providing a price guaranteed funeral service. The Company sells price guaranteed pre-need funeral services at prices prevailing when the agreements are signed. There is no guarantee that the insurance payout or the annuity contract payout will cover future increases in the cost of providing a price guaranteed funeral service, which could have an effect on the Company's profit margins. Fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar could result in currency exchange losses. A significant portion of the Company's corporate and administrative expenses are payable in Canadian dollars, while most of the Company's revenue is generated in United States dollars and the Company reports its financial statements in United States dollars. Therefore, a strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the United States dollar will adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Expenses for the Company's corporate and administrative functions are paid principally in Canadian dollars and have predictable future cash outflows ("Foreign Currency Expenditure"). The Company has a program to hedge the variability in the United States dollar equivalent of a portion of the Foreign Currency Expenditure due to the fluctuation in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and Canadian dollar ("Foreign Currency Hedge Program"). The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange option contracts to partially mitigate foreign exchange variability. Under the Foreign Currency Hedge Program, losses or gains in the Company's underlying foreign exchange exposure are partially offset by gains or losses on the forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange option contracts, so as to reduce the magnitude of foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Any hedging activities the Company undertakes may not be successful in mitigating all of this risk. Changes in tax rates and tax laws and results of tax audits may affect future results. Significant management judgment is required to determine overall Company tax expense and related tax assets and liabilities. Future effective tax rates could be materially affected by changes in tax rates or tax laws in each jurisdiction the Company operates or by changes in the valuation allowance applicable to our deferred tax assets. Realization of tax benefits associated with deferred tax assets is based on an assessment of the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and to the extent such assessment changes based on past experience and revised Company projections, an applicable valuation allowance may be reduced or established. In addition, we are subject to regular tax audits by various tax authorities, which audits may result in material additional taxes payable or recoverable. Stock volatility is possible. There can be no assurance as to the degree of price volatility in the market for the Common Stock and Warrants. The market price of the Common Stock and Warrants may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including variations in the Company's annual or quarterly financial results or those of its competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates of the future earnings of the Company, conditions in the economy in general or in the funeral industry in particular or unfavorable publicity. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will exceed the exercise price of the Warrants at any time prior to their expiration. Payment of dividends is not anticipated and is subject to restriction. Since the Effective Date, the Company has not paid any cash dividends. Certain institutional investors may only invest in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in the Company's Common Stock. In addition, covenants in the Credit Agreement and indenture governing the Eight-Year Senior Unsecured Notes restrict, and under certain circumstances prohibit, the payment of dividends by the Company. 11 Certain provisions in the Company's charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Such provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of Preferred Stock of the Company without stockholder approval, regulating the nomination of directors and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of the Company's board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of the Company's Common Stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder's best interest. Risks Related to the Company's Industry Declines in the number of deaths in the Company's markets can cause a decrease in revenues. Changes in the number of deaths are not predictable from market to market or over the short term. Declines in the number of deaths could cause at-need sales of funeral and cemetery services, property and merchandise to decline, which could decrease revenues. Although the United States Bureau of the Census estimates that the number of deaths in the United States will increase through 2010, longer lifespans could reduce the rate of deaths. Changes in the number of deaths can vary among local markets and from quarter to quarter, and variations in the number of deaths in the Company's markets or from quarter to quarter are not predictable. The growth in the rate of cremations in North America may result in decreased revenue and gross margin. There is an increasing trend in North America toward cremation. According to the Cremation Association of North America, approximately 29% of all deaths in 2004 in the United States were followed by cremation. This figure has grown at approximately 1% annually since 1997 and is projected to continue to grow at a comparable rate over the next three to five years. Compared to traditional funeral services, cremations have historically generated higher gross profit percentages but lower overall revenues. A substantial increase in the rate of cremations performed by the Company could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The funeral home, cemetery and insurance industries are highly regulated. The Company's operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trust funds, pre-need sales of funeral and cemetery products and services, environmental matters and various other aspects of the business. The impact of such regulations varies depending on the location of funeral homes and cemeteries. Violations of applicable laws could result in fines or other sanctions to the Company. From time to time, federal, state, provincial and local regulatory agencies have considered and may enact additional legislation or regulations that could affect the Company by increasing costs and decreasing cash flows. For example, additional legislation or regulations requiring more liberal refund and cancellation policies for pre-need sales of products and services or prohibiting door-to-door or telephone solicitation of potential customer families could adversely impact sales, resulting in lower revenue. Similarly, additional legislation or regulations increasing trust requirements could reduce the amount of cash available to the Company for other purposes. Additional legislation or regulations prohibiting the common ownership of funeral homes and cemeteries in the same market could adversely impact both sales and costs and expenses in the affected markets. If adopted in the states or provinces in which the Company operates, additional legislation or regulations such as these could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Funeral and cemetery businesses have high fixed costs. The Company incurs many of the costs of operating and maintaining facilities, land and equipment regardless of the number of funeral services or interments performed. Because the Company cannot necessarily decrease these costs when it experiences lower sales volumes, a decline in sales may cause margins, profits and cash flows to decline at a greater rate than a decline in revenue. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 