ITEM 1A Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary materially from current or forecast results. The risks below are not all-inclusive of risks that could impact the Company. Additional risks, not currently known to the Company, or that the Company presently considers immaterial could impact the Company’s business operations. This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements discuss Company prospects, expected revenue, expenses and profits, strategic initiatives for operations and other activity. Forward-looking statements also contain suppositions regarding future conditions in the oil and natural gas industry within both domestic and international economies. The Company’s results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including risks described below and elsewhere. See “Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company did not have profitable operations during 2010 and may not be profitable in 2011. The Company experienced net losses during the last three calendar years, including net losses in each of the four quarters of 2010. The Company can provide no assurance that the 2011 operational plan (the “2011 Plan”), will be executed successfully and that even if successful in execution the Company will be profitable in 2011. Demand for a majority of Company products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures within the oil and natural gas industry. If current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or oil and natural gas prices materially weaken for an extended period of time, possible reductions in customers’ levels of expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on revenue, margins and overall operating results. The current global credit and economic environment has tempered worldwide demand for energy. Crude oil and natural gas prices have continued to be volatile. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices could affect customers’ spending for products and services. Demand for the majority of the Company’s services is dependent upon the level of expenditures within the oil and gas industry for exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. Expenditures are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices, as well as the industry’s outlook regarding future oil and natural gas prices. Reduced demand for Company products and services exerted downward pressure on prices charged in 2009. Limited recovery occurred in 2010. If economic conditions do not continue to improve or weaken from current levels, additional reductions in customer exploration and production expenditures could result, causing reduced demand for Company products and services and a significant adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. It is difficult to predict the pace of the current recovery, whether the economy will worsen, and to what extent this could affect the Company. Reduced cash flow of some of the Company’s customers as a result of depressed commodity prices, reduced the availability of credit and increased the cost of borrowing due to tight credit markets. Reduced cash flow and capital availability could adversely impact the financial condition of the Company’s customers, which could result in customer project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to the Company, that could result in a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. If certain of the Company’s suppliers were to experience significant cash flow constraints or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies could occur, and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. The price for oil and natural gas is subject to a variety of factors, including: • demand for energy reactive to worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; • ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels; • production of oil and natural gas by non-OPEC countries; • availability and quantity of natural gas storage; • import volume and pricing of Liquefied Natural Gas; • pipeline capacity to critical markets; • political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; • cost of exploration, production and transport of oil and natural gas; • technological advances impacting energy consumption; and • weather conditions. The Company’s business is dependent upon domestic spending within the oil and natural gas industry. Spending could be adversely affected by industry conditions or by new or increased governmental regulations beyond the Company’s control. The Company is dependent upon customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures for exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in both the US and abroad. Customers’ expectations of future oil and natural gas market prices could curtail spending thereby reducing demand for the Company’s products and services. Industry conditions in the US are influenced by numerous factors over which the Company has no control, including the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and international economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices and the consequential effect on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of activity engaged in by the Company’s customers. One indicator of drilling and production activity spending is rig count which the company actively monitors to gauge market conditions. A reduction in drilling activity could cause a decline in the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, the Company’s products and services. Domestic demand for oil and natural gas could also be uniquely affected by public attitude regarding drilling in environmentally sensitive areas, vehicle emissions and other environmental standards, alternative fuels, taxation of oil and gas, perception of “excess profits” of oil and gas companies, and anticipated change in governmental regulations and policy. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 5 Back to Contents The senior credit facility contains certain covenants that could limit the Company’s flexibility and prevent the Company from taking certain actions, which could adversely affect the ability to initiate certain business strategies. The senior credit facility, as amended, includes a number of restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs and execute business strategies. The senior credit facility covenants, among other things, limit the Company’s ability, without the consent of the lender, to: • incur certain types and amounts of additional debt; • consolidate, merge, sell assets or materially change the nature of the Company’s business; • pay dividends on capital stock or make restricted payments; • make voluntary prepayments, or materially amend the terms of subordinated debt; • enter into disallowed types of transactions with affiliates; • make disallowed investments; • exceed quantified level of capital expenditures; and • incur certain liens. These covenants may restrict the Company’s operating and financial flexibility as well as limit the Company’s ability to react in a timely manner to changes in business or competitive circumstances. Covenant noncompliance could result in default of the senior credit facility. Upon such default, the Company’s senior credit facility lenders could declare all amounts borrowed and due to them, inclusive of all accrued and unpaid interest, due and payable. As a result, the Company or one or more of its subsidiaries could be forced into liquidation or bankruptcy. Any of the foregoing circumstances could restrict the Company’s ability to execute strategic business initiatives. Any default or acceleration of the Company’s senior credit facility could result in a default of the Company’s convertible senior notes. The Company’s future success and profitability may be adversely affected if the Company or the Company’s suppliers fail to develop and/or introduce new and innovative products and services. The oil and natural gas drilling industry is characterized by technological advancements that have historically resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of oilfield chemicals, drilling and artificial lift products and services function and performance. Consequently, the Company’s future success is dependent, in part, upon the Company’s and the Company’s suppliers’ continued ability to timely develop innovative products and services. Increasingly sophisticated customer needs and the ability to timely anticipate and respond to technological and industrial advances in the oil and natural gas drilling industry is critical. If the Company or the Company’s suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce innovative products and services that appeal to customers, or if new market entrants or competitors develop superior products and services, the Company’s revenue and profitability could suffer. The Company intends to pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company remains committed to growth through strategic acquisitions and alliances with complementary businesses. The Company’s historical and potential acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect the Company’s business climate and results of operations. Negotiations of potential acquisitions or integration of newly acquired businesses could divert management’s attention from other business concerns as well as be cost prohibitive and time consuming. Acquisitions could also expose the Company to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with new markets or businesses. Unforeseen operational difficulties related to acquisitions could result in diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of the Company’s management’s attention and resources. Additional acquisitions could result in the commitment of capital resources without the realization of anticipated returns. The Company’s current credit agreement limits the Company’s ability to access additional borrowings under the senior credit facility and from other sources. If the Company does not manage the potential difficulties associated with expansion successfully, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. The Company has grown over the last several years through internal growth, strategic business/asset acquisitions and strategic alliances. The Company believes future success will depend, in part, on the Company’s ability to adapt to market opportunities and changes and to successfully integrate operations of businesses the Company acquires. The following factors could generate business difficulties going forward: • lack of experienced management personnel; • increased administrative burdens; • customer retention; • technological obsolescence; and • infrastructure, technological, communication and logistical issues associated with large, expansive operations. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 6 Back to Contents If the Company fails to manage potential difficulties successfully, including increased costs associated with growth, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. The Company’s ability to grow and compete could be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available. The ability of the Company to grow and compete is reliant on the availability of adequate capital. Access to capital is dependent, in large part, on the Company’s cash flows from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. The Company cannot guarantee cash flows from operations will be sufficient, or that the Company will continue to be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all, in order to realize growth strategies. The Company’s senior credit facility restricts the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, including borrowings to fund future acquisitions, a key component of growth strategies. As a result, the Company cannot assure adequate capital will be available to finance strategic growth plans, to take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm the Company’s business. The Company’s current insurance policies may not adequately protect the Company’s business from all potential risks. The Company’s operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires, severe weather, oil and chemical spills and other hazards. These conditions can result in personal injury or loss of life, damage to property, equipment and environment, as well as suspension of customer’s oil and gas operations. Litigation arising from any catastrophic occurrence where the Company’s equipment, products or services are being used could result in the Company being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company maintains insurance coverage that it believes is customary to the industry to mitigate liabilities associated with these hazards. The Company does not, however, have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or is cost prohibitive. Further, the Company may not have the financial wherewithal to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future. Consequently, losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to complex foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which expose the Company to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s operations are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the protection of natural resources, injury, health and safety considerations, waste management and transportation of waste and other hazardous materials. The Company’s Chemicals segment exposes the company to risks of environmental liability that could result in fines, penalties, remediation, property damage and personal injury liability. In order to remain compliant with laws and regulations, the Company maintains permits, authorizations and certificates as required from regulatory authorities. Sanctions for noncompliance with such laws and regulations could include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. The Company could incur substantial costs to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations. Laws protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and are expected to continue to do so, which could result in material expenses associated with future environmental compliance and remediation. The Company’s costs of compliance could also increase if existing laws and regulations are amended or reinterpreted. Such amendments or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for and production of oil and natural gas which, in turn, could limit demand for the Company’s products and services. Some environmental laws and regulations may also impose joint and strict liability, meaning that in certain situations the Company could be exposed to liability as a result of Company conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Remediation expense and other damages arising as a result of such laws and regulations could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Material levels of the Company’s revenue are derived from customers engaged in hydraulic fracturing services, a process that creates fractures extending from the well bore through the rock formation to enable natural gas or oil to flow more easily through the rock pores to a production well. Bills pending in the US House and Senate have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation could require the reporting and public disclosure of currently proprietary chemical formulas used in the fracturing process. Legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could result in operational delays and increased operating costs. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or the implementation of regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could increase the difficulty of natural gas and oil well production and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. Certain scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases”, including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributory to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gas emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing worldwide attention. Legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of discussions or implementation at international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol (the “Protocol”) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which established emission targets for greenhouse gases, became binding on those countries that had ratified the Protocol. In the US, federal legislation imposing restrictions on greenhouse gases is currently under consideration. Proposed legislation has been introduced that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of greenhouse gases and would require most sources of greenhouse gas emissions to obtain greenhouse gas emission “allowances” corresponding to annual emissions. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) is taking steps that would result in the regulation of greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. To date, the EPA has issued (i) a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which requires operators of stationary sources in the US emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report greenhouse gas emissions annually; and (ii) an “Endangerment Finding” final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states that current and projected concentrations of six identified greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines threaten public health and welfare. Final greenhouse gas standards could reduce the demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. According to the EPA, the final greenhouse gas standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for large stationary sources. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including energy conservation or alternative energy incentives, could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations if, as a result, there is a reduction in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or global economic activity. Other results could be increased compliance costs and additional operating restrictions, each of which would have a negative impact on the Company’s operations. Lastly, the Company’s operations could be negatively impacted by related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 7 Back to Contents If the Company is unable to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or is found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others the Company’s business is likely to be adversely affected. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, non-disclosure agreements and other security measures to establish and protect the Company’s intellectual property rights. Although the Company believes that existing measures are reasonably adequate to protect intellectual property rights there is no assurance that the measures taken will prevent misappropriation of proprietary information, provide the Company with a competitive advantage, or dissuade others from independent development of similar products or services. Moreover, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to prevent competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using the Company’s technology, proprietary rights or products. The Company has not sought foreign protection corresponding to all US intellectual property rights. Consequently, the Company may not be able to enforce intellectual property rights outside of the US. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company’s products are manufactured or marketed may not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the US. Finally, parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent the Company’s patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. In each case, the Company’s ability to compete could be significantly impaired. A portion of the Company’s products are without patent protection. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee validity or enforceability, accordingly, Company patents may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that the Company has the right to use the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent the Company from marketing the Company’s own patented products and utilizing the patented technology. The Company is exposed to allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Furthermore, the Company could become involved in costly litigation or proceedings regarding patents or other intellectual property rights. If any such claims are asserted against the Company, the Company could seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights in order to mitigate exposure. In the event the Company cannot obtain a license, affected parties could file lawsuits against the Company seeking damages (including treble damages), or an injunction against the sale of the Company’s products allegedly incorporating infringed intellectual property or the operation of the Company’s business as certain conducted which would result in the Company having to cease the sale of some products, increase the cost of selling products, or result in damage to the Company’s reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction order against the manufacture and sale of any of the Company’s products, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and ability to compete. The Company and the Company’s customers are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the US including political risk, foreign exchange risk and other uncertainties. Revenue from the sale of products to customers outside the US exceeded 13% of the Company’s total 2010 annual revenue. The Company and its customers are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside of the US, including: • governmental instability; • war and other international conflicts; • civil and labor disturbances; • requirements of local ownership; • partial or total expropriation or nationalization; • currency devaluation; and • foreign laws and policies, each of which may limit the movement of assets or funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or appropriation of property without fair compensation. Collections and recovery of rental tools from international customers and agents may also prove difficult due to inherent uncertainties of foreign law and judicial procedure. The Company could experience significant difficulty with collections or recovery due to the political or judicial climate in foreign countries in which it operates or in which the Company’s products are used. The Company’s international operations must be compliant with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other applicable US laws, and the Company could become liable under these laws for actions taken by employees or agents. Compliance with international laws and regulations could become more complex and expensive thereby creating increased risk as the Company’s international business portfolio grows. Further, the US periodically enacts laws and imposes regulations prohibiting or restricting trade with certain nations. The US government could also change these laws or enact new laws that could restrict or prohibit the Company from doing business in identified foreign countries. Although most of the Company’s international revenue is derived from transactions denominated in US dollars, the Company has conducted, and likely will continue to conduct, some business in currencies other than the US dollar. The Company currently does not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, the Company’s profitability could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company has no control over and can provide no assurances that future laws and regulations will not materially impact the Company’s ability to conduct international business. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 8 Back to Contents The loss of key customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and could result in a decline in the Company’s revenue. The Company is dependent on a few key customers. During each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, over 18%, 22% and 26%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated revenue was derived from three customers. The Company’s customer relationships are historically governed by purchase orders or other short-term contracts rather than long-term contracts. The loss of one or more of these key customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and could result in a decline in the Company’s revenue. The loss of key suppliers, the Company’s inability to secure raw materials on a timely basis, or the Company’s inability to pass commodity price increases on to customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to service customer’s needs and could result in a loss of customers. Materials used in servicing and manufacturing operations as well as those purchased for sale are generally available on the open market and from multiple sources. Acquisition and transportation of these raw materials to the Company’s facilities however, can be impacted by extreme weather conditions. Certain raw materials used by the Chemicals segment are only available from limited sources and any disruptions to these suppliers could materially impact the Company’s sales. The prices the Company pays for raw materials could be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; foreign currency exchange rates; phases of the general business cycle and global demand. The Drilling and Artificial Lift segments purchase critical raw materials on the open market and, where able, from multiple suppliers, both domestically and internationally. The Company maintains a three to six month supply of critical mud-motor inventory parts that the Company sources from China. This inventory stock position approximates the lead time required to secure these parts in order to avoid disruption of service to the Company’s customers. The Company’s inability to secure reasonably priced critical inventory parts in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s ability to service customers. The Company sources the vast majority of motor parts from a single supplier. As part of the 2011 business plan, the Company is actively working to identify and develop relationships with back-up parts suppliers. If unsuccessful in identifying and engaging back-up suppliers, the Company could be exposed to a disruption of key suppliers that could result in a loss of revenue or key customers. Additionally, if the customers were to seek or develop alternatives for the products or services the Company offers, the Company could suffer a decline in revenue and loss of key customers. The Company currently does not hedge commodity prices. The Company may be unable to pass along price increases to its customers, which could result in a decline in revenue or operating profits. The Company’s inability to develop new products or differentiate existing products could have a material adverse effect on the ability to be responsive to customer’s needs and could result in a loss of customers. The Company’s ability to compete within the oilfield services business is dependent upon the ability to differentiate products and services, provide superior quality and service, and maintain a competitive cost structure. Activity levels in the Company’s operations are driven by current and forecast commodity prices, drilling rig count, oil and natural gas production levels, and customer capital spending for drilling and production. The regions in which the Company operates are highly competitive. The Company is also smaller than many other oil and natural gas service companies and has fewer resources as compared to these competitors. The larger competitors are better positioned to withstand industry downturns, compete on the basis of price and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect the Company’s revenue and profitability. The Company competes for both customers and acquisition opportunities. Competition could adversely affect on the Company’s operating profit. The Company believes that competition for products and services will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. If the Company loses the services of key members of management, the Company may not be able to manage operations and implement growth strategies. The Company depends on the continued service of the President, the Executive Vice President of Finance and Strategic Planning, the Executive Vice President of Operations, Business Development and Special Projects and the Chief Accounting Officer, who possess significant expertise and knowledge of the Company’s business and industry. Further, the President serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Company does not carry key man life insurance on any of these executives at December 31, 2010. The Company has entered into employment agreements with the President, the Executive Vice President of Finance and Strategic Planning, the Executive Vice President of Operations, Business Development and Special Projects and the Chief Accounting Officer. Any loss or interruption of the services of key members of the Company’s management could significantly reduce the Company’s ability to manage operations effectively and implement strategic business initiatives. The Company can provide no assurance that appropriate replacements for key positions could be found should the need arise. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or effectively prevent fraud, the Company’s reputation and operating results could be harmed. If the Company is unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, the Company may not be able to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which, in turn could affect the operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet Company’s reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in reported financial information, which could negatively effect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, limit the ability to access capital markets in the future and require the incurrence of additional costs to improve internal control systems and procedures. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 9 Back to Contents The Company did not maintain an effective control environment during 2009 and consequently identified control deficiencies that constituted material deficiencies in connection with preparation of the Company’s 2009 financial statements. The Company has concluded that while certain previously identified material deficiencies related to internal controls have been remediated as of December 31, 2010 the material deficiencies still exist within the Company’s control environment, disclosure controls and procedures remain ineffective. The Company has implemented on-going remediation and internal control improvement initiatives order to identify material weaknesses and to enhance the overall financial control environment. The Company’s management continues to be actively committed to and engaged in the implementation and execution of remediation efforts to identify and resolve any material weaknesses. The executive management team is committed to achieving and maintaining a strong control environment, high ethical standards, and financial reporting integrity. There can, however, be no assurance that the Company’s remediation efforts will be successful. Failure to timely file accurate reports with the SEC could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s common stock and the ability to raise capital in the capital markets. The Company did not file the March 31, 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in a timely manner. The Company filed a request for an extension of time to file and subsequently filed the referenced Form 10-Q within the extension period. A failure to timely file SEC reports could result in the Company’s inability to file registration statements using any registration form other than Form S-1, which is more time consuming and costly to prepare. Filing limitations could also hamper the Company’s ability to raise capital in financial markets. Additionally, the late filing of reports with the SEC could result in a technical default of the Company’s various debt obligations. The Company restated the Financial Statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the calendar year ended December 31, 2009 to reclassify warrants from stockholders’ equity to warrant liability and to recognize changes in the fair value of the a warrant liability in the statement of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Industry Uncertainty regarding the pace of recovery from the recent recession could have an adverse effect on exploration and production activity and result in lower demand for the Company’s products and services. Recent worldwide financial and credit crisis uncertainty has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit markets to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with pressure on worldwide equity markets could continue to impact the worldwide economic climate. Unrest in the Middle East may also impact demand for the Company’s products and services both domestically and internationally. Demand for the Company’s products and services is dependent on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for the Company’s products and services is particularly sensitive to levels of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. One indication of drilling and production activity and spending is rig count, which the Company monitors to gauge market conditions. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices or drop in rig count could depress current levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for the Company’s oil and natural gas well products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and profitability. Continuation of the global credit crisis could have an adverse impact on the Company’s customers and on the Company’s dealings with lenders, insurers and financial institutions. Events in global credit markets over the past several years have significantly impacted the availability of credit and associated financing costs for many of the Company’s customers. A significant portion of the Company’s customers finance drilling and production programs through third-party lenders. Lack of available credit or increased costs of borrowing could cause customers to reduce spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower prices for the Company’s products and services. Also, the credit and economic environment could significantly impact the financial condition of some customers over a prolonged period, leading to business disruptions and restricted ability to pay for the Company’s products and services. The Company’s forward-looking statements assume that the Company’s lenders, insurers and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under various credit agreements, insurance policies and contracts. If any of the Company’s significant lenders, insurers and others are unable to perform under such agreements, and if the Company was unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 10 Back to Contents A prolonged period of depressed oil and natural gas prices could result in reduced demand for the Company’s products and services and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for oil and natural gas have historically been extremely volatile. Such volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the perception by the Company’s customers of unpredictability in oil and natural gas prices, could adversely affect spending within targeted industries. The Company anticipates that current markets will continue to be volatile in the future. The demand for the Company’s products and services is, in large part, driven by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related general levels of production spending and drilling activity. In particular, depressed oil and natural gas prices could cause a decline in exploration and drilling activities. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for the Company’s products and services and could result in lower prices for the Company’s products and services. A prolonged decline in oil or natural gas prices could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. New and existing competitors within the Company’s industry could have an adverse effect on results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive and fragmented. The Company’s principal competitors include numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in the Company’s markets on a local basis, as well as a number of large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than does the Company. Larger competitors may be able to devote greater resources to developing, promoting and selling products and services. The Company may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors including current suppliers that decide to sell their products and services directly to the Company’s customers. As a result of this competition, the Company could experience lower sales or greater operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s margins and results of operations. The Company’s industry has a high rate of employee turnover. Difficulty attracting or retaining personnel or agents could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company operates in an industry that has historically been highly competitive in securing qualified personnel with the required technical skills and experience. The Company’s services require skilled personnel able to perform physically demanding work. Due to industry volatility and the demanding nature of the work, workers could choose to pursue employment opportunities that offer a more desirable work environment at wages competitive with the Company’s. As a result, the Company may not be able to find qualified labor, which could limit the Company’s growth ability. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining qualified personnel has increased over the past several years due to competitive pressures. The Company expects labor costs will continue to increase in the foreseeable future. In order to attract and retain qualified personnel the Company may be required to offer increased wages and benefits. If the Company is unable to increase the prices of products and services to compensate for increases in compensation, or is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, operating results could be adversely affected. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards, cold weather and other severe weather conditions could result in curtailment of services, damage to equipment and facilities, interruption in transportation of products and materials and loss of productivity. If the Company’s customers are unable to operate or are required to reduce operations due to severe weather conditions, and as a result curtail purchases of the Company’s products and services, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm the Company’s business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the US could adversely affect the US and global economies and could prevent the Company from meeting financial and other obligations. The Company could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors, or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants or refineries are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company has implemented certain security measures in response to the threat of terrorist activities. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, impair the ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact the Company’s ability to realize certain business strategies. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 11 Back to Contents Risks Related to the Company’s Securities The market price of the Company’s common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has historically been subject to significant fluctuations. The following factors, among others, could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate significantly: • variations in the Company’s quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in the Company’s industry; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volume; • fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices; • issuances of common stock or other securities in the future; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • announcements by the Company or the Company’s competitors of new business, acquisitions or joint ventures. The stock market has experienced unusual price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the price of common stock of many companies within the oil and natural gas industry. Further changes can occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of the Company’s common stock could continue to fluctuate based upon factors that have little to do with the Company’s operational performance, and these fluctuations could materially reduce the Company’s stock price. Class action lawsuits have historically been brought against companies following periods of common stock market price volatility. The Company could be named in a legal case of this type, which could be expensive and divert management’s attention and company resources, as well as have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. An active market for the Company’s common stock may not continue to exist or may not continue to exist at current trading levels. Trading volume for the Company’s common stock has historically been low when compared to companies with larger market capitalizations. The Company cannot presume that an active trading market for the Company’s common stock will continue or be sustained. Sales of significant amounts of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market could lower the market price of the Company’s stock. If the Company does not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the Company’s common stock may be delisted, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In accordance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards, a company is considered to be below compliance standards if, among other things, (i) both a Company’s average global market capitalization is less than $50 million over a 30 trading-day period and a company’s stockholders’ equity is less than $50 million; (ii) a company’s average global market capitalization is less than $15 million over a 30 trading-day period, which would result in immediate initiation of suspension procedures; or (iii) a company’s average closing price of a listed security is less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. The Company previously received notification from the NYSE that it was not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing requirements because both the 30 trading-day average global market capitalization and the Company’s stockholders’ equity were below the respective $50 million requirements. When a listed company’s stock falls below the market capitalization and stockholders’ equity standard, a company is considered “below criteria,” however, the company is permitted to submit a business plan demonstrating ability to return to compliance with continued listing standards within 18 months of receipt of the NYSE notification. The Company submitted a plan of action to the NYSE in March 2010, which the Company believes will provide the ability to, once again, achieve compliance by no later than June 28, 2011 with the minimum listing requirements. During the plan implementation process, the Company’s common stock continues to be listed on the NYSE, subject to the Company’s compliance with other NYSE continued listing requirements. On March 29, 2010, the NYSE agreed to accept the Company’s plan of action. If the Company’s shares of common stock are delisted from the NYSE and the Company is unable to list common stock on another US national or regional securities exchange or have shares of common stock quoted on an established over-the-counter trading market in the US within 30 days of being delisted, the Company could be required to offer to repurchase all of the Company’s outstanding convertible notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Were this to occur the Company could lack the financial wherewithal to fund the repurchase of any convertible notes tendered. Delisting of the Company’s common stock could also negatively impact the Company by: (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of the Company’s common stock; (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire the Company’s common stock, and correspondingly impact the Company’s ability to raise equity financing; and (iii) decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company. In addition, the Company could experience other adverse effects, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in the Company by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom the Company has or may seek to initiate business relationships, and the Company’s ability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation. The Company has no plans to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock, and, therefore, investors will have to look to stock appreciation for return on investments. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends on the Company’s common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company currently intends to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of the Company’s business and to meet current debt obligations. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations deemed relevant by the board of directors. Certain covenants of the Company’s senior credit facility restrict the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Investors must rely on sales of common stock held after price appreciation, which may never occur, in order to realize a return on their investment. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 12 Back to Contents Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Company’s charter documents and applicable Delaware law could discourage or prevent others from acquiring the Company, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • permit the Company to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of the series; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings; • limit the ability of shareholders to act by written consent; • prohibit cumulative voting; and • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combinations with owners of more than 15% of the Company’s stock without the approval of the board of directors. Aforementioned provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company exclusive of negotiation. The Company’s board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer deemed not beneficial to or synergistic with the Company’s strategic outlook. If an acquirer were discouraged from offering to acquire the Company or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by referenced anti-takeover measures, shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell owned shares at a favorable price. Future issuance of additional shares of common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company may, in the future, issue previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, which would result in the dilution of current stockholders ownership interests. The Company is currently authorized to issue 80,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 44,417,382 were issued as of March 7, 2011. Additional shares are subject to future issuance through the exercise of options granted under various equity compensation plans or through the exercise of options still available for future equity grants. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock, whether directly or pursuant to any conversion right associated with the convertible senior notes or convertible preferred stock or other convertible securities of the Company, or through exercise of outstanding warrants may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in order to raise capital or effectuate other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may issue additional shares of preferred stock or debt securities with greater rights than the Company’s common stock. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, the Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue one or more additional series of preferred stock and to set the terms of the issuance without seeking approval from holders of common stock. Currently, there are 100,000 preferred shares authorized, of which 16,000 shares were originally issued, of which no shares remain outstanding at March 7, 2011. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank senior to common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums, and may have greater voting rights than holders of common stock. All outstanding warrants are exercisable as of December 31, 2010. The Company’s ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax attribute carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of transactions involving the Company’s common stock. Under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on the Company’s ability to utilize pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”), and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). An ownership change could limit the Company’s ability to utilize NOLs and tax attribute carryforwards for taxable years including or following an identified “ownership change.” Transactions involving the Company’s common stock, even those outside the Company’s control, such as purchases or sales by investors, within the testing period, could result in an “ownership change”. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require the Company to pay US federal income taxes in excess of that which would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect. NOLs and tax attributes could expire unused, in each instance reducing or eliminating the benefit of the NOLs and tax attributes. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. Disclaimer of Obligation to Update Except as required by applicable law or regulation, the Company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. FLOTEK INDUSTRIES, INC. – Form 10-K – 13 Back to Contents ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 