ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-looking statements cannot be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially due to the uncertainties and risks, known and unknown, associated with such statements. We have made, and may continue to make, various written or verbal forward-looking statements with respect to our business, including statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reports to stockholders. Forward-looking statements are those involving the outcome of future events that are based upon current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projects as well as the current beliefs and assumptions of our management. Any statement that is not a historical fact, including any statement regarding estimates, projections, future trends and the outcome of events that have not occurred, is a forward-looking statement. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “plan,” “anticipate’” and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the date made, are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain and should be viewed with caution. The Company makes no commitment to update any forward-looking statement or to disclose any facts, events, or circumstances after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, other than as required by law. Featherlite wishes to caution readers that the factors discussed below in “Risk Factors,”, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, Featherlite’s actual results and could cause Featherlite’s actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Featherlite. The Company may not be able to increase prices sufficiently to cover increases in cost of aluminum and other costs . Prices of aluminum, the principal commodity used in the Company’s business, fluctuate daily in the open market. The Company purchases substantial amounts of aluminum extrusions from a number of major suppliers, including Alcoa Extrusions, Inc. Tifton Aluminum Co., Inc. and Indalex, Inc. and the majority of its sheet metal from two large suppliers, Joseph T. Ryerson & Son, Inc. and Aluminum Line Products Co. The Company has not engaged in hedging or the purchase and sale of future contracts other than contracts for delivery to fill its own needs. In the past, the Company has had contracts with certain of the above suppliers to fill a substantial portion of its projected needs for aluminum for the forthcoming year at fixed prices. The Company has not obtained such contracts for 2006 and is purchasing aluminum to meet its production requirements at current market prices for aluminum. If the Company is unable to obtain such commitments from suppliers or otherwise reduce the price risk related to 2006, this could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results if the cost of aluminum in 2006 increases significantly above 2005 levels and the Company cannot increase its product prices sufficiently to cover aluminum and other cost increases. The Company initiated a 4 percent price increase for substantially all trailer products other than interior packages that are invoiced after December 31, 2005 unless they were ordered and in backlog at December 31, 2005. The Company also initiated a 4.5% aluminum surcharge on all aluminum trailer models invoiced after January 17, 2006 unless they were ordered and in backlog at January 17, 2006 to help offset increased aluminum costs it is currently experiencing, but there can be no assurance these price increases will be sufficient or that increased sales prices will not harm demand. Our commodity risks are discussed further in Item 7A of this annual report on Form 10-K under “Commodity Risk.” Changes in customer discretionary spending may cause our sales volume and product mix to fluctuate. A large portion of our sales involve discretionary spending by our customers, and may be delayed or cancelled in times of economic uncertainty. The industries in which we operate are competitive, and we face continued pressure to increase selling prices to reduce the impact on margins of increasing aluminum and other materials costs, labor rates and overhead costs related to the expanded production facilities and organization to support expected increases in sales. Our product mix from period to period can have an important impact on our gross profit since products include varying combinations of material and labor costs. While we experienced significant sales growth in 2004 and moderate growth in 2005, a return to a static or declining growth rate in the overall demand for our products may harm our sales and hinder our ability to maintain operating results and our liquidity. 12 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to maintain compliance with, or obtain future waivers for non-compliance with, various restrictive covenants under its credit facilities. Each of the Company’s long-term financing agreements contains affirmative and restrictive covenants. The Company was in compliance with all of these covenants during 2005 and 2004, but has required waivers of compliance for certain covenants in 2003 and certain prior years (as discussed more fully in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K). Although management believes it will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in 2006 and beyond, violations could occur allowing the lenders their option to accelerate payment of the debt. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly affect our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed our historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. The Company self-insures for a portion of its claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation and employee health insurance. The Company is also responsible for its legal expenses relating to such claims. The Company reserves currently for anticipated losses and expenses. Our claims reserves are periodically evaluated and adjusted to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserve amounts. The Company maintains insurance above the amounts for which it self-insures with licensed insurance carriers, including individual stop loss coverage for both workers’ compensation employee and health insurance and aggregate claims stop loss coverage for workers’ compensation insurance. Although the Company believes the aggregate insurance limit should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including manufacturing companies such as ours. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insurance retention when our policies are renewed. If these expenses increase, or if we experience a claim exceeding our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim or series of claims for which coverage is not provided, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s motorcoach credit facility availability could be reduced. Advance rates under the Company’s financing arrangement with GE are based on 90 percent of the cost of eligible new motorcoach inventory and 70 percent of the defined value of eligible used motorcoach inventory. The agreement also requires a 1.5% per month reduction in amounts borrowed on a used coach when it has been financed more than 360 days and all financing will be due in full on day 720, and after 360 days, new units are converted to used financing at an advance rate of 70 percent versus 90 percent, with 1.5% per month curtailments beginning on day 721 until day 1,080 when all financing on the unit will be due in full. Future aggregate availability under this agreement could be reduced if the Company is unable to sell certain new or used coaches before the financing expires under this amended agreement. This may require the Company to use financing available from its other credit line or to obtain additional financing from other sources. There can be no assurance such financing will be available. The value of the Company’s motorcoach inventory fluctuates. The Company takes trade-ins on both new and used motorcoach sales. These trade-in units are marketed on a retail basis to other customers. In the three years ended December 31, 2005, the Company experienced a significant decline in the market value of trade-in units and certain non-current new models and wrote down the carrying value of the used inventory by $300,000, $500,000, and $1.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, in order to facilitate their sale. There is a risk that additional write-downs of this inventory will occur if these trade-in units are not sold at current selling prices, which could adversely impact the Company’s future operating results and reduce the capital advances available under its credit facility with GE. The Company begins motorcoach production before customer orders are received. To maintain a level production schedule, production often begins on motorcoaches before orders have been received from specific buyers. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 86% of the coaches in production and to be completed over the next four months had not been sold to specific customers. While it is the Company’s expectation that substantially all of these motorcoaches will be sold to specific customers before production is completed, or shortly thereafter, there is no assurance this will occur. If the motorcoaches are not sold according to expectations, the Company may have to reduce selling prices which would harm its profitability. Further, if the sale periods for motorcoaches are substantially longer than expected, capital advances available under the Company’s credit facility with GE will be reduced and liquidity may be harmed. The Company relies upon one supplier for motorcoach shells and one vendor for special graphics. There is a risk related to the loss or interruption in the supply of bus conversion shells from the Company’s sole supplier of these shells. The Company purchases all of its bus conversion shells from Prevost Car Company, which is owned by Volvo Bus Corporation. The Company also uses one subcontractor to provide paint and graphic design work to meet customer specifications on certain custom trailers and specialty transporters. In the event Prevost is unable to deliver motorcoach shells to the Company or the subcontractor is unable to provide its services on a timely basis, the Company’s revenues and profits could be adversely affected. We purchase our aluminum from a limited number of vendors. We may have difficulty receiving our requirements for aluminum (our principal raw material component) if we lose one of our major suppliers of aluminum. In the past, this risk has been 13 Table of Contents relatively nominal as there have been alternate sources of supply. In recent years, however, the number of alternate sources of supply has been reduced due to mergers within the aluminum industry. Also, additional time may be required to replace an extruded aluminum supplier due to the fact that dies are required and would have to be made. The Company routinely tries to keep at least three suppliers of each shape so it has a backup supplier if necessary. However, if the number of suppliers of aluminum is further reduced, or if the Company is otherwise unable to obtain its aluminum requirements on a timely basis and on favorable terms, the Company’s operations may be harmed. ITEM 