Item 1A. Risk Factors. This document, our other filings with the SEC, and other materials released to the public contain “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may discuss our prospects, expected revenue, expenses and profits, strategies for our operations and other subjects, including conditions in the oilfield service and oil and natural gas industries and in the United States and international economy in general. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. Although it is not possible to identify all factors, these risks and uncertainties include the risk factors discussed below. Risks Related to Our Business Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. Current global economic conditions have resulted in a significant decline and volatility in oil and gas prices. If current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers’ levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue, margins and overall operating results. The current global credit and economic environment has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers’ activities and their spending on our services and products. Demand for the majority of our services substantially depends on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and gas prices. As the worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets has deepened in recent months, demand for oil and gas has reduced dramatically and oil and gas prices have fallen sharply, causing some of our customers to start to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending. This has started to reduce the demand for our services and has begun to exert downward pressure on the prices that we charge. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate or do not improve, it could result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for our services and products. This could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict how long the economic downturn will continue, to what extent it will worsen, and to what extent this will continue to affect us. The reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to the tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors, including: • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; 8 Table of Contents • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil; • oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • availability and quantity of natural gas storage; • LNG import volume and pricing; • pipeline capacity to key markets; • political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; • the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • weather conditions. Our business depends primarily on domestic spending by the oil and gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry conditions or by new or increased government regulations that are beyond our control. We depend primarily on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and gas in the United States. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and gas may curtail spending thereby reducing demand for our products and services. Industry conditions in the United States are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and gas, domestic and international economic conditions, political instability in oil and gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. The volatility of the oil and gas industry and the consequent effect on exploration and production activity could adversely affect the level of drilling and production activity by some of our customers. One indication of drilling and production activity and spending is rig count, which the company monitors to gauge market conditions. This reduction in exploration may cause a decline in the demand for, or adversely affect the price of, our products and services. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves in our market areas could also have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced or the number of drilling and producing wells declines because of substantial depletion of existing domestic reserves or the availability of cheaper reserves outside the United States. In addition, domestic demand for oil and gas may be uniquely affected by public attitudes regarding drilling in environmentally sensitive areas, vehicle emissions and other environmental standards, alternative fuels, taxation of oil and gas and “excess profits” of oil and gas companies, and the potential changes in governmental regulation and policy that may result from such public attitudes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows, to meet our debt service obligations or other liquidity needs, and we may not be able to successfully negotiate waivers or a new credit agreement to cure any covenant violations under our current credit agreements. Due to an extensive capital expenditure program in 2006, we exceeded the indebtedness covenant, fixed charge coverage ratio and capital expenditures limit set forth in our senior credit facility. In 2006, we obtained waivers of those covenants from our principal lender. In February 2008, we amended the terms of our senior credit facility to permit us to issue up to $150 million in convertible senior notes and incur additional capital expenditures. The amended facility includes new financial covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum net worth and not to exceed a maximum senior leverage ratio. These amendments also increased the interest rates under the facility, increased our quarterly principal payments pursuant to our term loan and will require us to 9 Table of Contents make mandatory prepayments of our term loan facility in specified circumstances, including if the appraised value of our fixed assets falls below specified levels. The Company evaluated its goodwill and other intangibles assets in the fourth quarter of 2008, and recorded an impairment of $67.7 million. As a result, we did not meet the Minimum Net Worth covenant contained within our credit agreement as of December 31, 2008. On February 25, 2009, we entered into a First Amendment and Temporary Waiver Agreement (the "Amendment") with our lenders, which amended the terms of our credit agreement dated as of March 31, 2008 (the "New Credit Agreement"). The Amendment, among other things, increased the interest rate margins applicable to advances under the New Credit Agreement, decreased the aggregate revolving commitment under the New Credit Agreement to $15.0 million, and provides a temporary waiver of any breach by Flotek of the Minimum Net Worth covenant in the New Credit Agreement through the earlier of May 15, 2009 or the occurrence of certain other specified events. The Amendment also permits the Company to exchange shares of its common stock for up to $40.0 million of our Convertible Senior Notes. Our financial projections for 2009 indicated that we could potentially be in non-compliance with the Leverage Ratio, Minimum Net Worth and Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio Covenants contained within our New Credit Agreement during 2009. Due to all of these factors, we negotiated a Second Amendment, dated March 13, 2009 (the “Second Amendment”) to our New Credit Agreement with our lenders. The Second Amendment changes the manner in which our borrowing base is computed increases our interest rate and fees associated with borrowings under the New Credit Agreement, limits our permitted maximum capital expenditures to $8.0 million and $11.0 million for 2009 and 2010, respectively and established new covenants related to the Minimum Net Worth, Leverage and Fixed Charge Coverage Ratios. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to make scheduled payments or mandatory prepayments on our current debt obligations and other future debt obligations we may incur will depend on our future financial performance, which may be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory and industry factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may be required under generally accepted accounting principles to record further impairment charges in the future relating to the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets. If as a result of our financial performance or future impairment charges we exceed the amended maximum leverage ratio, fail to meet the required amended minimum net worth, exceed the amended maximum senior leverage ratio or are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, we may have to seek waivers of these covenants from our lenders or undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities or other securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any required waivers from our lenders or that we will be able to accomplish any necessary refinancing, sale of assets or issuance of securities on terms that are acceptable. Our inability to obtain any required waivers, to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy such obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The tightening of the credit markets or a downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our existing indebtedness, to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or to obtain funding through the issuance of securities. If such conditions were to persist, we would seek alternative sources of liquidity but may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. Our principal source of liquidity, other than cash flows from operations, is the revolving line of credit under our amended senior credit facility. The borrowing base under our revolving line of credit is based on our accounts receivable and inventory. If our revenues and inventory decrease as a result of the current economic environment or otherwise, our borrowing capacity under our revolving line of credit could decrease, and such decreases could require us to repay excess borrowings under the revolving line. Any such decreases could also outpace any offsetting reductions in our working capital requirements, which could lead to reduced liquidity. While we believe that our cash flows from operations and amounts available under our new revolving line of credit are 10 Table of Contents sufficient to meet our obligations in the near term, our needs for cash may exceed the levels generated from operations and available to us under our revolving line of credit due to factors which are beyond our control. Our New Credit Agreement, as amended by the Second Amendment also contains representations, warranties, fees, affirmative and negative covenants, and default provisions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our revolving credit agreement and our other indebtedness. Also, should there be an event of default, or need to obtain waivers following an event of default, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and/or more restrictive covenants in future periods. Acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7. Our senior credit facility contains certain covenants that could limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Our senior credit facility, as amended includes a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. The senior credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability, without the consent of the lender, to: • incur certain types and amounts of additional debt; • consolidate, merge or sell our assets or materially change the nature of our business; • pay dividends on capital stock and make restricted payments; • make voluntary prepayments, or materially amend the terms, of subordinated debt; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • make certain investments; • level of capital expenditures; • make certain capital expenditures; and • incur certain liens. These covenants may restrict our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. Our senior credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial conditions, several of which may require us to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with the covenants. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we could be in default. In the event of a default, our lender or the holders of our Convertible Senior Notes could elect to declare all the amounts borrowed and due to them, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be due and payable. In addition, the lender could elect to terminate its commitment to us, and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into liquidation or bankruptcy. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to execute our business strategy. Our future success and profitability may be adversely affected if we or our suppliers fail to develop and introduce new and innovative products and services that appeal to our customers. The oil and gas drilling industry is characterized by continual technological developments that have resulted in, and likely will continue to result in, substantial improvements in the scope and quality of oilfield chemicals, 11 Table of Contents drilling and artificial lift products and services and product function and performance. As a result, our future success depends, in part, upon our and our suppliers’ continued ability to develop and introduce new and innovative products and services beyond our micro-emulsion surfactant line to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and anticipate and respond to technological and industry advances in the oil and gas drilling industry in a timely manner. If we or our suppliers fail to successfully develop and introduce new and innovative products and services that appeal to our customers, or if new market entrants or our competitors offer such products and services, our revenue and profitability may suffer. We intend to pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Our business strategy includes growing our business through strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses as our capital structure permits. Acquisitions that we have made or that we may make in the future may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The process of negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets or businesses. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and resources. Even if we are successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expect from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of capital resources without the anticipated returns on such capital. In addition, we may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. Competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. We also must meet certain financial covenants in order to borrow money under our senior credit facility, as amended, to fund future acquisitions and to borrow for other purposes which, if not met, could prevent us from making future acquisitions. Recent changes in accounting literature that govern how companies account for acquisitions may make new acquisitions more costly and/or have an immediate adverse impact on our profitability, potentially resulting in our consummating few acquisitions. If we do not manage the potential difficulties associated with expansion successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have grown over the last several years through internal growth and strategic acquisitions of other businesses and assets. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage the growth we have experienced. The following factors could present difficulties to our business going forward: • lack of sufficient experienced management personnel; • increased administrative burdens; • customer retention; • technology obsolescence and • increased infrastructure, technological, communication and logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may have difficulties managing the increased costs associated with our growth, which could adversely affect our operating margins. Our ability to grow and compete in the future will be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available. The ability of our business to grow and compete depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on our cash flow from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. We 12 Table of Contents cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all to implement our growth strategy. For example, our senior credit facility, as amended, restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires us to meet certain financial covenants in order to borrow money, including borrowings to fund future acquisitions, a key component of our growth strategy. As a result, we cannot assure you that adequate capital will be available to finance our current growth plans, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. Our current insurance policies may not be adequate to protect our business from all potential risks. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires, severe weather, oil and chemical spills and other hazards. These conditions can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to property, equipment and the environment, and suspension of oil and gas operations of our customers. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment, products or services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. However, we do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. As a result, losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which expose us to costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management and transportation of waste and other materials. Our operations, including our Chemicals and Logistics segment, which involves chemical manufacturing, packaging, handling and delivery operations, pose risks of environmental liability that could result in fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation, and liability for property damage and personal injuries. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain permits, approvals and certificates from various foreign, federal, state and local governmental authorities. Sanctions for noncompliance with such laws and regulations may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are amended or reinterpreted. Such amendments or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for and production of oil and gas which, in turn, could limit demand for our products and services. Some environmental laws and regulations may also impose joint and strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of such laws and regulations could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or are found to infringe intellectual property rights of others our business is likely to be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, non-disclosure agreements and other security measures to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Although we believe that those measures are reasonably adequate to protect our intellectual property and provide for the continued operation of our business, there can be 13 Table of Contents no assurance that the measures we have taken or may take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or provide us with a competitive advantage, or that others will not independently develop similar products or services, design around our proprietary or patented technology or duplicate our products or services. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. We have not sought foreign protection corresponding to all of our US intellectual property rights. Consequently, we may not be able to enforce all of our intellectual property rights outside of the United States. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or marketed may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. In addition, some of our products are not protected by issued patents. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications alleging possible infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in costly litigation or proceedings brought against us regarding patents or other intellectual property rights. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (potentially including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or cause damage to our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to compete. We and our customers are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States which may expose us to political risk, foreign exchange risk and other uncertainties. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 8%, 5% and 7%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues were derived from the sale of products for use outside of the United States. Accordingly, we and our customers are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States, including: • governmental instability, • war and other international conflicts, • civil and labor disturbances, • requirements of local ownership, • partial or total expropriation or nationalization, • currency devaluation, and • foreign exchange control and foreign laws and policies, each of which may limit the movement of assets or funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. 14 Table of Contents Collections and recovery of rental tools from international customers and agents may also prove more difficult due to the uncertainties of foreign law and judicial procedure. We may therefore experience significant difficulty resulting from the political or judicial climate in countries in which we operate or in which our products are used. Our international operations must also comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable United States laws, and we could be liable under these laws for actions taken by our employees or agents. In addition, from time to time, the United States has passed laws and imposed regulations prohibiting or restricting trade with certain nations, and the United States government could change these laws or enact new laws that could restrict or prohibit us from doing business in certain foreign countries. Although most of our international revenue is derived from transactions denominated in United States dollars, we have conducted and likely will continue to conduct some business in currencies other than the United States dollar. We currently do not hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, our profitability could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We have no assurance that future laws and regulations will not materially adversely affect our international business. The loss of certain key customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and could result in a decline in our revenue. We are dependent on a few major customers. Five customers accounted for approximately 34%, 34% and 30% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Two of these customers accounted for approximately 18%, 18% and 13% of our consolidated revenue and 37%, 32% and 26% of our Chemicals and Logistics segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our customer relationships are typically governed by purchase orders or other short-term contracts rather than long-term contracts. The loss of one or more of our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could result in a decline in our revenue. The loss of certain key suppliers, our inability to secure raw materials on a timely basis, or our inability to pass commodity price increases on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customer’s needs and could result in a loss of customers. The Company believes that materials and components used in its servicing and manufacturing operations and purchased for sales are generally available on the open market and from multiple sources. Collection and transportation of these raw materials to the Company’s facilities can be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions. However, certain raw materials used by the Chemical and Logistics segment in the manufacture of our proprietary, ‘green’ chemical sales are available from limited sources and disruptions to our suppliers could materially impact our sales. The prices paid by the Company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; foreign currency exchange rates; the general business cycle and global demand. The Company experienced greater difficulty in securing the necessary supplies of certain chemicals in 2008 than it had experienced during the preceding several years due to the production capacity of our suppliers and weather related events. These specific events had minimal impact on prices of these supplies but did result in longer lead times. During 2008, the prices of many raw materials rose considerably, though towards the end of 2008, we began to see prices decline. Higher prices and lower availability of chemicals, steel and other raw material the Company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods. The Drilling Products and Artificial Lift segments purchase their principal raw material and steel on the open market and where we can, we use multiple suppliers, both domestically and internationally, for our key raw materials purchases. We also keep in our inventory a three to six month supply of key mud-motor inventory parts that we source from China. This inventory stock position approximates the lead time required to secure these parts in order to avoid disruption of service to our customers. Our inability to secure these key components in a timely manner at reasonable prices could adversely affect our ability to service our customers. We source the vast majority of our 15 Table of Contents motor parts from a single supplier. As part of our business plan we are diligently working to develop relationships with backup parts suppliers. If we are unsuccessful in developing these relationships, we may be exposed to disruption of key supplies that could result in a loss of revenues or key customers. Additionally, if our customers were to seek or develop alternative approaches, which may vary significantly by geographical region, to the products or services we offer, we could suffer a decline in our revenue and loss of key customers. We currently do not hedge our commodity prices. We may not be able to pass along price increases to our customers, which could result in a decline in revenues or operating profit. Our inability to develop new products or differentiate our products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customer’s needs and could result in a loss of customers. Our ability to compete in the oilfield services market is dependent on our ability to differentiate our products and services, provide superior quality and service, and maintain a competitive cost structure. Activity levels in our three segments are driven primarily by current and expected commodity prices, drilling rig count, oil and gas production levels, and customer capital spending allocated for drilling and production. The regions in which we operate are highly competitive. The competitive environment has intensified as recent mergers among oil and gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Additionally, the recent downturn in the economy has resulted in the market for our services and that of our competitors to contract. Many other oil and gas service companies are larger than we are and have greater resources than we have. These competitors are better able to withstand industry downturns, compete on the basis of price and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect our revenue and profitability. These competitors compete with us both for customers and for acquisitions of other businesses. This competition may result in pressure on our operating profit. We believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. If we lose the services of key members of our management, we may not be able to manage our operations and implement our growth strategy effectively. We depend on the continued service of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer, who possess significant expertise and knowledge of our business and industry. We do not have an employment agreement with any of these executives, nor do we carry key man life insurance on any of them. Any loss or interruption of the services of these or other key members of our management could significantly reduce our ability to manage our operations effectively and implement our growth strategy, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to find appropriate replacements for key positions should the need arise. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our operations and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Our 2006 annual report disclosed two material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, related to inadequate staffing within our accounting department and inadequate monitoring controls. As a result of these material weaknesses, we recorded adjustments to the 2006 financial statements that affected several financial statement line items. During 2007 we implemented changes to our internal controls over financial reporting to address the identified material weaknesses and improve the operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, those changes may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which, in turn could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to 16 Table of Contents meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In March of 2008, we did not file our Annual Report on Form 10-K in a timely manner. We filed a request (Form 12b-25) for an extension of time to file this report and subsequently filed our Form 10-K within the extension period for the 2007 year. A failure to file our reports timely with the SEC will result in our inability to file registration statements using any registration form other than Form S-1, which is more time consuming and costly to prepare, for a period of time. This limitation if realized may hamper our ability to raise capital in the financial markets. Additionally, the late filing of reports with the SEC would result in a technical default of our various debt obligations. Risks Related to Our Industry Possible Extended Worldwide Recession and Effect on Exploration and Production Activity. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. Forecasted crude oil prices for 2009 have dropped substantially in the last month. For example, crude oil prices declined from record levels in mid-2008 of approximately $145 per barrel to approximately $35 per barrel in early 2009 and natural gas prices have declined significantly since mid-2008 to early 2009. Demand for our services and products depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. One indication of drilling and production activity and spending is rig count, which the company monitors to gauge market conditions. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices or drop in rig count will depress the immediate levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our oil and natural gas well services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Risks related to Global Credit Crisis. Recent events in the global credit markets have significantly impacted the availability of credit and financing costs for many of our customers. Many of our customers finance their drilling and production programs through third-party lenders. The reduced availability and increased costs of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower prices for our products and services. Also, the current credit and economic environment could significantly impact the financial condition of some customers over a period of time, leading to business disruptions and restricting their ability to pay us for services performed, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition. Our forward-looking statements assume that our lenders, insurers and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under our various credit agreements, insurance policies and contracts. If any of our significant financial institutions were unable to perform under such agreements, and if we were unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 17 Table of Contents Volatility or decline in oil and natural gas prices may result in reduced demand for our products and services which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for oil and natural gas have historically been extremely volatile. We anticipate that these markets will continue to be volatile in the future. Such volatility in oil and gas prices, or the perception by our customers of unpredictability in oil and natural gas prices, adversely affects the spending patterns in our industry. The demand for our products and services is, in large part, driven by current and anticipated oil and gas prices and the related general levels of production spending and drilling activity. In particular, volatility or a decline in oil and gas prices may cause a decline in exploration and drilling activities. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our products and services and may cause lower prices for our products and services. As a result, volatility or a prolonged decline in oil or natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition from new and existing competitors within our industry could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our principal competitors include numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis as well as a number of large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our larger competitors may be able to devote greater resources to developing, promoting and selling their products and services. We may also face increased competition due to the entry of new competitors including current suppliers that decide to sell their products and services directly to our customers. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, which may have an adverse effect on our margins and results of operations. Our industry has experienced a high rate of employee turnover. Any difficulty we experience attracting or retaining personnel or agents could adversely affect our business. We operate in an industry that has historically been highly competitive for securing qualified personnel with the required technical skills and experience. Our services require skilled personnel who can perform physically demanding work. Due to industry volatility and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wages that are competitive with ours. As a result, we may not be able to find enough labor to meet our needs, which could limit our growth. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining qualified personnel has increased over the past several years due to competition, and we expect it will continue to increase in the future. In order to attract and retain qualified personnel we may be required to offer increased wages and benefits. If we are not able to increase the prices of our products and services to compensate for increases in compensation, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards and cold weather and other weather hazards may cause the curtailment of services, damages to our equipment and facilities, interruptions in the transportation of our products and materials in accordance with contract schedules and loss of productivity. If our customers are unable to operate or are required to reduce their operations due to severe weather, and as a result curtail the purchases of our products and services, our business could be materially adversely affected. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other 18 Table of Contents obligations. We may experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payers, or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. In addition, such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas which, in turn, could reduce the demand for our products and services. We have implemented certain security measures in response to the threat of terrorist activities. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategy. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has historically been subject to significant fluctuations. The following factors, among others, could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; • fluctuation in stock market prices and volume; • fluctuation in oil and natural gas prices; • issuance of common stock or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of new business, acquisitions or joint ventures. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the prices of the common stock of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes can occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate based upon factors that have little to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. Class action lawsuits have frequently been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their common stock. If we become involved in this type of litigation it could be expensive and divert management’s attention and Company resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An active market for our common stock may not continue to exist or may not continue to exist at current trading levels. Trading volume for our common stock has historically been low when compared to companies with large market capitalizations. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Sales of significant amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our stock. If we do not meet the New York Stock exchange continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). If we do not meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, which require, among other things, a minimum average closing price for our common stock of $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of our common stock closed as low as $1.88 and as of March 6, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was $1.28. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by: (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) reducing the number of 19 Table of Contents investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and (iii) decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for us. We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and, therefore, investors will have to look to stock appreciation for return on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Certain covenants of our senior credit facility, as amended restrict the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lender. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, in order to realize a return on their investment. Certain anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage or prevent others from acquiring our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that: • permit us to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 100,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of the series; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings; • limit the ability of shareholders to act by written consent; • prohibit cumulative voting; and • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combinations with owners of more than 15% of our stock that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not feel was in our strategic interest. If the acquirer were discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by the anti-takeover measures, you could lose the opportunity to sell your shares at a favorable price. Future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price. The Company may in the future issue its previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of its current stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 40,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 23,174,286 were issued and 22,782,091 were outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 857,251 were subject to future issuance through the exercise of options previously granted under our equity compensation plans. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock, whether directly or pursuant to any conversion right of our convertible senior notes or other convertible securities we may issue in the future, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for raising capital or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents We may issue shares of preferred stock or debt securities with greater rights than our common stock. Subject to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of our common stock. Currently, there are 100,000 preferred shares authorized but none issued. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank senior to our common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than holders of our common stock. Holders of our convertible senior notes will be preferred in right of payment to the holders of our preferred and common stock. Disclaimer of Obligation to Update Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we assume no obligation (and specifically disclaim any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 21 Table of Contents 