ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have described below some risks which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our exclusive license for our service area in the Cayman Islands may not be renewed in the future and requires that we obtain prior approval for any rate increase for reasons other than inflation. In the Cayman Islands, we presently operate as a public water utility under an exclusive license originally issued to us in December 1979 by the government of the Cayman Islands. Our existing license expires on July 11, 2010. If we are not in default of any terms of the license, we have a right of first refusal to renew the license on terms that are no less favorable than those that the government offers to a third party. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the government will renew our license or that we will be able to negotiate a new license on satisfactory terms. We would retain ownership of our production infrastructure and substantially our entire distribution infrastructure if our license were not renewed. Under our existing license, we must obtain prior approval from the Cayman Islands government to increase our rates for any reason other than inflation. Our ability to raise our rates is limited by this requirement, including potential delays and costs involved in obtaining government approval for a rate increase. Failure to obtain adequate rate increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on water supply and/or service agreements with our customers in the Cayman Islands, Belize, The Bahamas and Barbados which, upon their expiration, may not be renewed or may be renegotiated on less favorable terms to us. We presently operate as bulk water suppliers under water sales agreements in the Cayman Islands with our customer the Water Authority-Cayman, in Belize with our customer, Belize Water Services Limited, and in The Bahamas with our customers, the Water & Sewerage Corporation and South Bimini International Ltd. We presently operate a plant in Barbados under a service agreement for our customer Sandy Lane Properties Ltd. Upon expiration, these agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed on less favorable terms. The British Virgin Islands Water and Sewerage Department has taken the position that our water supply agreement is operating on a month-to-month basis. We have accepted the position of The British Virgin Islands Water and Sewerage Department that Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd.’s existing water supply arrangement is in force on a month-to-month basis until negotiations for a definitive agreement are finalized. In May 1999, The British Virgin Islands government did not make a required buyout payment of $1.42 million for the Baughers Bay plant and has taken the position that the water supply agreement continues on a month-to-month basis. Thus, it is possible, but we believe it unlikely, that the government could cease purchasing water at any time. While Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd. has made attempts in the past to negotiate a new water supply agreement, there is no guarantee such agreement will be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms favorable to Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd. Cessation of the government water purchases, or failure to negotiate a new agreement on terms favorable to us, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, gross revenue of our affiliate Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd. was $7,715,827. Our equity investment in Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd., as at December 31, 2005, was $11,305,281. In the event that the government ceased purchasing water from the Baughers Bay plant, or we negotiated a 21 Table of Contents new contract with the government on less favorable terms than the existing supply arrangement, we would be required to evaluate this investment for impairment. In the event that we determined that this investment was impaired, we could incur significant expense to write off part or all of this investment, which would reduce our earnings during the period in which the investment was determined to be impaired. Our business is affected by tourism, weather, the economies of the locations where we provide service and the U.S. and European economies. Tourist arrivals and weather within our operating areas affect the demand for our water to a greater extent in the Cayman Islands and in Belize than in The Bahamas, The British Virgin Islands and Barbados. In the Cayman Islands and Belize, the highest demand is normally in the first two quarters of each calendar year. The lowest demand for water occurs in the third quarter of each calendar year. A significant percentage of tourists visiting the Cayman Islands and Belize come from the U.S. or certain European countries. In addition, development activity in our service areas in the Cayman Islands is significantly impacted by the U.S. economy. Accordingly, a significant downturn in tourist arrivals to the Cayman Islands or in the U.S. or European economies for any reason would be detrimental to our revenues and operating results. Additional terrorist activities in the United States, Europe or in areas served by us or extended hostilities in the Middle East would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may have difficulty accomplishing our growth strategy within and outside of our current operating areas. Even though we have an exclusive license for our present operating area in the Cayman Islands and supply agreements in the Cayman Islands, The Bahamas, The British Virgin Islands, Barbados and Belize, our ability to expand our operating areas is often subject to the approval of the respective governments in each location. Further, part of our long-term growth strategy is to expand our water supply and distribution operations to other locations. Our expansion into new locations depends on our ability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals to operate in new territories. We may not obtain these necessary permits, licenses and approvals in a timely and cost efficient manner, or at all. Our expansion to territories outside of our current operating areas includes significant risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • regulatory risks, including government relations difficulties, local regulations and currency controls; 22 Table of Contents • risks related to operating in foreign countries, including political instability, reliance on local economies, environmental or geographical problems, shortages of materials, immigration restrictions and limited skilled labor; • risks related to development of new operations, including assessing the demand for water, engineering difficulties and inability to begin operations as scheduled; and • risks relating to greater competition in these new territories, including the ability of our competitors to gain or retain market share by reducing prices. Even if our expansion plans are successful, we may have difficulty managing our growth. We cannot assure you that any new operations outside of our current operating areas will attain or maintain profitability or that the results from these new operations will not negatively affect our overall profitability. The Windsor Contract may not be renewed in the future. The Windsor Contract expires on or near to March 2013 or after Waterfields has supplied 13.1 billion U.S. gallons to WSC. The Company cannot assure that WSC will renew the contract or that it will be able to negotiate a new contract on satisfactory terms. The Company would retain ownership of the production infrastructure if the Windsor Contract were not renewed. From time to time and since October 2004, the Company has been unable to deliver the required water volumes to WSC from the Windsor Plant because of mechanical equipment problems and fouling of the reverse osmosis membrane elements. As a result of this fouling, the Company has been subject to water rate adjustments that have reduced sales, and may or may not be technically in default of the Windsor Contract. The Company has implemented an extensive program to test and understand the cause of the membrane fouling which has increased and abated several times since the Windsor Plant was commissioned in December 1996. The Company has also undertaken to expand the capacity of the Windsor Plant in order to replace the production capacity that has been lost because of membrane fouling. WSC has not notified the Company that it is in breach of the terms of the Windsor Contract. The Blue Hills Plant is larger than any other single desalination plant that we have built previously and revenue from this plant is substantially derived from fixed unit prices. Because of the size of the Blue Hills project, there were inherent uncertainties in the cost estimates to construct this facility and construction and/or operating cost overruns could materially affect the return on our investment. Additionally, the terms of the contract required us to guarantee the price of desalinated water on a per unit basis, subject to certain annual inflation adjustments, and assume the risk that the costs associated with producing this water may be greater than anticipated. The profitability of this project is therefore dependent on our ability to estimate accurately the costs of constructing as well as operating the plant. These costs were and can in the future be affected by a variety of factors, such as changes in the costs of materials and services or the delivery of such services since we submitted our bid in March 2004, lower than anticipated production efficiencies and hydro-geological conditions at the plant site differing materially from what was evaluated at the time we bid on the contract. If we did not estimate accurately the costs of this project or its operating costs, it may have a lower margin than expected, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. On March 10, 2005, Biwater International Limited, a corporation which was unsuccessful in its bid for the construction of the Blue Hills Plant, and Biwater Bahamas Limited (“BBL”) filed an application with the Supreme Court of The Commonwealth of The Bahamas for judicial review of WSC’s award for the construction of the Blue Hills Plant to the Company. The unsuccessful bidder and BBL are 23 Table of Contents seeking an order from the court rescinding the award to the Company of the Blue Hills Plant construction project and an order awarding the project to the unsuccessful bidder. In the alternative, the unsuccessful bidder and BBL are seeking an order from the court awarding compensatory and exemplary damages to them. The Company is not a party to this action. The Company is currently performing its obligations under the Blue Hills contract and expects to complete the project in August, 2006. WSC has entered into an agreement to indemnify the Company against all expenses and losses incurred by the Company, including loss of profits, which the Company may incur if the court were to award the Blue Hills Project construction project to Biwater International Limited We do not own a majority interest in Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd. We own 50% of the voting shares of Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd., which allows us to appoint three of the six directors of that company. Sage Water Holdings (BVI) Limited, which owns the remaining 50% of the voting shares, is entitled to appoint the remaining three directors. If there is a tied vote of the directors on any matter, the president of the Caribbean Water and Wastewater Association is entitled to appoint a temporary director to break the tie. As a result, we share the management of Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd. with Sage Water Holdings (BVI) Limited. Although we also provide management and engineering services to Ocean Conversion (BVI) Ltd., we do not fully control the operations, as our total ownership interest is 43.5%. Our operations could be harmed by hurricanes. Another significant hurricane such as Ivan, which affected our Cayman Islands operations in September 2004, could cause major damage to our equipment and properties and the properties of our customers, including the large tourist properties in our areas of operation. This would result in decreased revenues and profits from water sales until our damaged equipment and properties are repaired and our customers and the tourism industry returned to the status quo before the hurricane. We insure all of our assets except for our feed wells and, in the Cayman Islands our underground water distribution system. Also, another significant hurricane such as Katrina, which affected an area in geographic proximity to several of our operations and significant suppliers, could disrupt our supply chain and/or the related delivery of components necessary to our operations, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Contamination to our processed water may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our revenues. Naturally occurring or man-made compounds and events may contaminate our processed water. In the event that a portion of our processed water is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the supply of water until we are able to install treatment equipment or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water production source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat a contaminated source of plant feed water through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. Our inability to substitute processed water from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated plant feed water in a cost-effective manner may have an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York, Washington, D.C. and Pennsylvania, we have taken steps to heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. While we are not aware of any specific threats to our facilities, operations or supplies, we have 24 Table of Contents and will continue to take security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. It is possible, however, that we would not be in a position to control the outcome or the costs of such events should they occur, which could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Potential government actions and regulations could negatively affect us. Any government that regulates our operations may issue legislation or adopt new regulations, including but not limited to: • restricting foreign ownership of our Company; • providing for the expropriation of our assets by the government; • providing for nationalization of public utilities by the government; • providing for different water quality standards; • unilateral changes to or renegotiations of our exclusive licenses; or • causing currency exchange fluctuations or devaluation’s or changes in tax laws. We rely on the efforts of several key employees. Our success depends upon the abilities of our executive officers. In particular, the loss of the services of Jeffrey Parker, our Chairman of the Board, or Fredrick W. McTaggart, our President and Chief Executive Officer could be detrimental to our operations and our continued success. Although Messrs. Parker and McTaggart have entered into three-year employment agreements, which may be extended every year for an additional one-year term, we cannot guarantee that Mr. Parker or Mr. McTaggart will continue to work for us during the term of their agreements. In addition to Messrs. Parker and McTaggart, our Senior Vice President and our Vice Presidents have entered into non-compete agreements. We are exposed to credit risk. We are not exposed to significant credit risk on retail customer accounts in the Cayman Islands and Bimini, Bahamas, as our policy is to cease supply of water to customers whose accounts are more than 45 days overdue. Our exposure to credit risk is from our bulk water sales customers in Belize, The Bahamas, The British Virgin Islands, Barbados and the Cayman Islands and our outstanding affiliate loan balance with OCBVI. In addition, the balance of our loan receivable is with one bulk water customer, Water Authority-Cayman. We are exposed to interest rate risk in several countries. As of December 31, 2005, we had loans outstanding totaling $12,850,542, all of which bear interest at various lending rates such as LIBOR, Cayman Island’s Prime Rate or The Bahamas Prime Lending Rate. We are subject to interest rate risk to the extent that any of these rates change. Provisions in our Articles of Association and an Option Deed adopted by our Board of Directors may discourage a change in control of our Company. Our Articles of Association include provisions which may discourage or prevent a change in control of our Company. For instance, our Board of Directors consists of three groups. Each group serves a staggered term of three years before the Directors in the group are up for re-election. 25 Table of Contents We have also adopted an Option Deed, which is similar to a poison pill. The Option Deed will discourage a change in control of our Company by causing substantial dilution to a person or group who attempts to acquire our Company on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. The Option Deed will expire on July 31, 2007. As a result of these provisions, which discourage or prevent an unfriendly or unapproved change in control of our Company, our shareholders may not have an opportunity to sell their common stock at a higher market price, which, at least temporarily, typically accompanies attempts to acquire control of a company through a tender offer, open market purchase or otherwise. There may be a risk of variation in currency exchange rates. Although we report our results in United States dollars, the majority of our revenue is earned in other currencies. All of the currencies in our operating areas have been fixed to the United States dollar for over 20 years and we do not employ a hedging strategy against exchange rate risk associated with our reporting in United States dollars. If any of these fixed exchange rates becomes a floating exchange rate our results of operations could be adversely affected. Service of process and enforcement of legal proceedings commenced against us in the United States may be difficult to obtain. Service of process on our Company and our directors and officers, twelve out of sixteen of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Also, since substantially all of our assets are currently located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be collectible. There is no reciprocal statutory enforcement of foreign judgments between the United States and the Cayman Islands, so foreign judgments originating from the United States are not directly enforceable in the Cayman Islands. A prevailing party in a United States proceeding against us or our officers or directors would have to initiate a new proceeding in the Cayman Islands using the United States judgment as evidence of the party’s claim. A prevailing party could rely on the summary judgment procedures available in the Cayman Islands, subject to available defenses in the Cayman Islands courts, including, but not limited to, the lack of competent jurisdiction in the United States courts, lack of due service of process in the United States proceeding and the possibility that enforcement or recognition of the United States judgment would be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Depending on the nature of damages awarded, civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for original actions instituted outside the Cayman Islands may or may not be enforceable. For example, a United States judgment awarding remedies unobtainable in any legal action in the courts of the Cayman Islands (for example, treble damages, which would probably be regarded as penalties), would not likely be enforceable under any circumstances. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 