D. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to our business operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that are presently unknown or deemed to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Global Economy and Our Industry Deterioration in global economic conditions has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of the recent global financial crisis and sovereign debt crisis in the United States, or US, and the Euro zone continues to be a cause of concern despite concerted efforts by certain governments and international institutions to contain the adverse effect of these events on the global economy. Global financial and credit markets have been extremely unstable and unpredictable and economic conditions in some of the countries in which we operate have been weak. The instability of the credit markets and weakness of the global economy could continue to adversely affect the demand for our 4 Table of Contents customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders from us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us and the ability of our customers, our suppliers and us to obtain credit. These factors have adversely affected, and could continue to affect, our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic and political policies of the government of China could reduce overall economic growth in China, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. China has become the largest consumer of commodities in the world and represents an important market for our products. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend to a significant degree on economic developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most other countries in a number of respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and government control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. Any future actions and policies adopted by the Chinese government could materially affect the Chinese economy and slow the growth of the demand for commodities in China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. China is the largest consumer in the world market for steel making raw materials and is the world’s largest producer of steel. China currently relies on imports for a majority of its scrap metal needs. However, as the economy in China continues to grow and expand, China could ultimately become a net exporter of scrap metals, which may impact future demand for our products from China. There can be no assurance that reduced demand from China could be offset by new demand from other markets. There may also be an adverse impact on demand for our products in China if the economy were to slow as a consequence of financial tightening, a banking crisis, social unrest, or other circumstances. The metal recycling industry has historically been, and is expected to remain, highly cyclical and highly competitive and has been subject in the past to significant fluctuations in scrap metal prices as well as changes in supply and rapid demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Scrap metal prices and scrap intake are volatile and the operating results of the metal recycling industry, in general, have historically been cyclical, and are expected to remain highly cyclical, and our operations, specifically, are expected to be highly cyclical in nature. Scrap metal prices in global markets fell sharply in September 2008 due to a collapse in demand and the result was excess supply in the industry. The decline in prices during this period adversely affected the results of scrap metal companies, including us, resulting in lower revenues and write-downs of inventories to net realizable value. As a consequence of the lingering effect of the global financial crisis on our business, we have continued to encounter significant volatility in scrap pricing and demand. Our business conditions in our largest market being North America remain challenging. Scrap metal prices are sensitive to trends in cyclical industries, such as the automotive and construction industries. In the past, substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness have not always been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Although ferrous scrap prices have stabilized to a degree over the last few years, the timing and extent of factors that will lead to a recovery to inbound flows of scrap cannot be predicted. Recovery of inbound volumes will likely depend on a broad recovery from the current global economic downturn, although the length and nature of business cycles affecting the scrap metal industry have historically been unpredictable. We believe that constrained consumer spending in durable items such as automobiles and white goods has contributed greatly to reduced intake. Tight supplies of raw materials and increased competition have compressed our margins, particularly in North America. Additionally, if we were to experience a protracted downturn in scrap metal prices, this would adversely affect our results of operations and 5 Table of Contents financial condition, including, possible losses arising from write-downs of inventories and long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment, investments and intangible assets. Fluctuations in commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our inventory positions could be exposed to falling markets. We are exposed to commodity price risk during periods in which we have title to products that are held in inventory for processing or resale. Prices of commodities, including recycled metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed recycled metal, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw materials that we procure, process and sell to our customers. New entrants into our markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our recycled metal. We are unable to hedge positions in certain commodities, such as recycled ferrous metal, where no established futures market exists. Thus, our sales and inventory position will be vulnerable to adverse changes in commodity prices, which could adversely impact our operating and financial performance. We operate a global trading business that is involved in the purchase and sale of ferrous steel making raw materials without a corresponding sale or purchase. At any time, our global trading business may have a material number of “open” or “at risk” trading positions. To the extent that markets move in an adverse direction and we have not covered our position, this will have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, with our scrap metal inventory positions, we may have significant unsold positions during periods of falling prices that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our electronics recycling business can own significant inventories at its smelter customers awaiting assay results for extended periods of time during which prices could decline. Developments in the steel industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The scrap metal industry, and our business specifically, may also be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the US, or other significant market regions, such as Australia and the United Kingdom, or UK, which may have an adverse impact on steel production in such market regions and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for recycled metal from some of our facilities within such market regions. Additionally, the scrap metal industry, and our business specifically, could be negatively affected by changes in tariffs, or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales or attract imports of recycled metal or metal substitutes, which could, in turn, reduce demand for our recycled metal. In recent years, certain steel manufactures have vertically integrated into the scrap metal recycling industry. This has reduced domestic demand for scrap metal in our markets and has increased our focus and reliance on export markets. Volatility and disruption of credit and equity markets may impede or prevent our ability to access the capital markets in the future and/or obtain capital on favorable terms. In recent years, the credit and equity markets of both mature and developing economies have experienced extraordinary volatility, asset erosion and uncertainty. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit and equity markets to finance our operations and fund our expansion, there can be no assurance that there will not be any further deterioration in the capital markets that could restrict our access to such markets. Until the credit and equity markets normalize on a long-term and sustainable basis, we may not be able to access the capital markets when required, or to access them on acceptable terms, to obtain funding needed for expansion or operation of our business in furtherance of our strategic plan. In addition, changes in the capital or other legal requirements applicable to commercial lenders may affect the availability or increase the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities. If we are unable to obtain needed capital in this manner on terms acceptable to us, that condition 6 Table of Contents may limit our growth initiatives or require us to take other actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant increase in the use of substitute materials by consumers of processed recycled ferrous metal could reduce demand for our products. During periods of high demand, tightness can develop in the available supply of recycled ferrous metal. The relative scarcity of recycled ferrous metal, particularly prime or industrial grades, during such periods provides opportunities for producers of substitute products, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets. It cannot be assured that the use of substitutes to recycled ferrous metal will not proliferate in the future if the prices for recycled metal rise or if the supply of available unprepared ferrous metal tightens. A number of third parties around the world are developing technologies to produce recycled ferrous metal substitutes. If these efforts prove successful, they could become significant competitors and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our metal recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply and scrap flows have been adversely impacted by global economic conditions in the US, the UK and elsewhere. We procure our recyclable metal inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell recyclable metal to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold recyclable metal to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their metal collection activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling recyclable metal to us, we will be unable to recycle metal at desired levels and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, as a result of weak global economic conditions, a slowdown of industrial production and consumer spending in the US, UK and certain other countries has occurred which has reduced the supply of industrial and post-consumer grades of scrap metal, resulting in us having less recyclable metal available to process and market. We are dependent on technology in our business and face risks associated with implementing technology into our business. Technology is growing increasingly important in our industry and we have made significant investment into proprietary systems and our competitors are developing different approaches to similar technologies. The technology we recently implemented relates to downstream systems intended to increase the recovery of non-ferrous metals generally and copper wire in particular from our shredding systems. Our proprietary systems may not prove successful or our competitors may develop better technologies which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to international conflicts and terrorism. Due to the extensive diversification of our international operations and significant presence on ports, we are subject to a higher level of risk than some other companies relating to international conflicts, wars, internal civil unrest, trade embargoes and acts of terrorism. Our international operations include sales in developing countries, which may be more likely than developed countries to be affected by international conflicts and terrorism. Risks of this type may affect facilities owned or operated by us or facilities of our suppliers or customers. In addition, risks of this type may affect port facilities or other transportation infrastructure owned or used by us in the operation of our business. In circumstances implicated by international conflicts, there could be severe limitations imposed on intercontinental shipments of materials which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Severe weather, natural disasters and climate conditions could have an adverse effect on our overall business. Our facilities are located in places that could be affected by natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados and other natural disasters. If natural disasters were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt our facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business. In fiscal 2011, our operations in Queensland, Australia were impacted by severe flooding, certain of our operations in New Zealand were impacted by earthquakes, and certain of our operations in North America were impacted by flooding around the Mississippi River. Risks Related to Regulation Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to trade, competition, taxes, employees and employee benefits, worker health and safety, land use, the environment, transportation activities, international trade, and other matters. We may be required to make significant expenditures and to devote substantial management time and attention in order to operate our business in compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement may require us to make significant additional expenditures or to change our business practices. For example, at our 2011 annual general meeting (and at each annual general meeting thereafter) shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on the remuneration report in our home annual report. While this vote is advisory only and non-binding, changes to the Australian Corporations Act which came into effect on July 1, 2011, will mean that a vote against the remuneration report by at least 25% of the shareholders at successive annual general meetings will result in a further resolution being put to shareholders at the second of those annual general meetings that a further meeting be held at which the entire existing board (other than the managing director) be subject to re-election. Any change to our board may cause disruption to the operation of our business or cause investor concern. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could incur criminal or civil fines, penalties, assessments or other damages which could be substantial and could have material restrictions or limitations placed on our business operations. In certain cases, such failure to comply also may give rise to potential claims for damages by private parties. Furthermore, we are dependent on international markets for shipping scrap and if laws or regulations were to prohibit or limit our ability to ship between continents, there could be an adverse effect to our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to stringent environmental laws, regulations and permit and license requirements. We are subject to comprehensive statutory and regulatory environmental requirements at all levels of government relating to, among others: • the storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and other hazardous materials; • the discharge of materials and emissions into the air; • the discharge of materials into water or the ground; • the management, treatment and discharge of wastewater and storm water; • the prevention and remediation of impacts to soil, surface water and groundwater; and • the protection of employee health and safety. The nature of our business, and previous operations by others at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated or otherwise used by us, exposes us to risks of claims under environmental laws and regulations, especially for the remediation of soil or groundwater impacts. We may be required to make material expenditures for remedial activities or capital improvements with regard to sites currently or formerly owned or operated or otherwise used by us. Environmental statutes and regulations have changed rapidly in recent years by requiring greater and more expensive protective measures. Thus, it is possible that we will be subject to even more stringent environmental standards in the future. For example, in many jurisdictions in which we operate, there is actual or potential regulation and or legislation relating to the removal of mercury-containing 8 Table of Contents devices, e.g. mercury switches from automobile hulks that are purchased and processed by us. Legislation or regulations that may be enacted in the future cannot be presently known and neither can the effects, if any, that any such law or regulation could have on our business. For these reasons and others, the future capital expenditures for pollution control equipment, remediation or other initiatives that may be required cannot be predicted with accuracy. However, it is generally expected that environmental standards will become increasingly more stringent and the expenditures necessary to comply with those heightened standards will correspondingly increase. Because companies in the metal recycling industry have the potential for discharging wastes or other regulated materials into the environment, in any given year, a significant portion of our capital expenditures could be related, directly or indirectly, to pollution control or environmental remediation. In addition, some products we sell, or have sold in the past, are subject to electronics recycling legislation in certain jurisdictions or other legislation regulating certain aspects of the materials used in and the manufacturing or design of the product. Many jurisdictions are also considering similar legislation that may impact products we sell or sold and these laws could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are required to maintain, and to comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our operations. Failure to maintain, or violations of, any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in us incurring substantial fines, suspension of operations or closure of a site. Further, our metal recycling operations are conducted primarily outdoors and, as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, such outdoor operations will involve the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and possibly to surface water or groundwater. As part of our continuous improvement programs, we expect to incur costs to improve environmental control systems. Additionally, there also are requirements to possess permits and licenses that are necessary to sell and ship scrap metal into certain markets and if we were unable to renew such licenses or permits, our ability to market scrap metals in certain jurisdictions could be impacted and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may adversely affect our operations and markets. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. In July 2011, the Australian government announced it would introduce a carbon tax at A$23 per ton beginning on July 1, 2012, rising 2.5% annually plus inflation, after which it will transition to a cap-and-trade scheme with permits bought on the free market, but subject to a floor and ceiling price. If the legislation is passed, we may incur additional capital and operating costs to comply with such legislation including the acquisition of emissions allowances to continue operating. In April 2010, the UK government introduced the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, which was subsequently amended in February 2011 and became effective on April 1, 2011. The scheme applies to organizations, including us, whose mandatory half hourly metered electricity consumption is greater than 6,000 MWh in the qualification period (which for the first phase of the CRC is calendar year 2008). Potential impacts to us include the costs associated with improving energy efficiency and the administrative costs of participating in the scheme. We will be required to purchase emissions allowances from the UK government to cover our direct and indirect emissions in April of each year of the scheme beginning in April 2012 (where allowances will be purchased for emissions from the 2011 fiscal year). The cost of the allowances for the initial period of the scheme will be £12/ton, although the cost could increase in the later years of the scheme. These allowances were initially to be recycled and paid back to the best performing organizations however in October 2010, the UK government revised this and will now retain all revenue from participants. This effectively makes the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme a straight carbon tax on energy emissions. 9 Table of Contents In 2007, the US Supreme Court ruled that the US Environmental Protection Agency, or USEPA, was authorized to regulate carbon dioxide emissions under the US Clean Air Act. Subsequently, USEPA issued the Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule which requires large sources and suppliers in the US to report greenhouse gas (GHG) data at a facility located in the US if the levels of GHG emissions at such facility exceed certain threshold levels. In 2011, the US Supreme Court also ruled that the authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions is limited to the USEPA under the Clean Air Act and does not extend to the states. International treaties or agreements also may result in increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms, in jurisdictions in which we operate. Any such regulation likely will result in increased future energy and compliance costs and may result in increased future capital expenditures. From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of these regulatory initiatives. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances, such as increased water levels. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Our operations generate waste that is required to be treated (in some instances), stored and disposed of in accordance with applicable environmental laws. Our metal recycling operations produce significant amounts of waste that we are required to pay to have treated (in some instances) or disposed of. For example, we operate shredders for which the primary feedstock is automobile hulks and obsolete household appliances. Approximately 20% of the weight of an automobile hulk consists of non-metallic material, commonly referred to as shredder fluff or automobile shredder residue, or ASR, which constitutes the remnant material after the separation of saleable ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Environmental regulations in countries in which we operate require us to test ASR to determine if it is to be classified as hazardous waste before disposing of it off-site in permitted landfills or beneficially reusing it as alternate daily landfill cover material. Our other waste streams in the US and other countries in which we operate are subject to similar requirements. Additionally, we employ significant source control programs to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, that prohibited hazardous materials do not enter our raw materials stream. However, we cannot be assured that such materials will be successfully removed from our source streams and resultant recycling waste streams. As a result, our waste streams may, from time to time, be classified as hazardous waste in which case we may incur higher costs for disposal of these waste streams. Environmental assessments, conducted by independent environmental consulting firms, of certain of our operating sites have revealed that some soil impacts, potentially including impacts associated with various metals, petrochemical by-products, waste oils, polychlorinated biphenyls, which are referred to as PCBs, and volatile organic compounds are, or may be, present at varying levels. It is likely that such impacts at varying levels may exist at some of the sites and it is expected that some of these sites could require investigation, monitoring and remediation in the future. The costs of such remediation could be significant. The existence of such impacts at some of our facilities potentially could require us to incur significant costs to remediate and could materially adversely affect our ability to sell those properties. 10 Table of Contents We may have potential environmental investigation and cleanup liabilities. Certain of our US subsidiaries have received notices from USEPA, US state agencies or third parties that they have been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigation and cleanup of landfills or other sites where our subsidiary’s material was shipped or was otherwise released. In most cases, many other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, which is the US federal cleanup law, enables USEPA and other entities to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites which pose or may pose serious threats to the environment or public health. In certain circumstances, a potentially responsible party may be held jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup. In other cases, a party which is liable may only be liable for a divisible share. Liability may be imposed even if the party shipped materials in a lawful manner at the time of shipment. Liability for investigation and cleanup costs can be significant, particularly in cases where joint and several liability may be imposed. The Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1999, which amended CERCLA, limits the exposure of metals recyclers for sales of recyclable material under certain circumstances. However, the recycling defense is subject to conducting reasonable care evaluations of current and potential consumers. Because CERCLA liability can be imposed retroactively on shipments that occurred many years ago, and because USEPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that present problems to public health or the environment, we cannot be assured that we will not become liable in the future for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of CERCLA or state cleanup sites. Our operations present risk of serious injury, illness or death. Because of the heavy industrial activities that are conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors to our operations, notwithstanding the significant safety precautions that are taken. Our operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies responsible for employee health and safety. We currently have in place policies and workplace strategies to minimize this risk to employees, contractors and other visitors to our facilities and, accordingly, to minimize the risk that we will incur government fines for violations of such regulations. We may, nevertheless, be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death, illness or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which impose restrictions and may carry substantial penalties. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the recently enacted UK Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws may require controls, policies and processes, including record-keeping practices, to ensure business is conducted without the influence of bribery and corruption. These anti-bribery laws often carry substantial penalties including fines, criminal prosecution and potential debarment from public procurement contracts. Failure to comply may also result in reputational damage. Our corporate policies mandate strict compliance with these laws. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there is a risk that violations of these laws could nevertheless occur in connection with our business operations. Any violation of these laws or allegations of such violations, whether or not merited, could result in a requirement for us to pay substantial penalties, result in disbarment from public procurement contracts and have a material adverse effect on our reputation. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates in the countries in which we operate. Although our reporting currency is the Australian dollar, we have significant assets, liabilities and earnings denominated in currencies other than the Australian dollar, in particular US dollars, British pounds and Euros. These assets, liabilities and earnings, therefore, are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the Australian dollar. In general, an appreciation of the Australian dollar against another currency, and most particularly the US dollar, would adversely affect our results of operations, while a depreciation of the Australian dollar against another currency would have a favorable impact. In fiscal 2011, the Australian dollar strengthened by 13% against the US dollar. The increase in the value of the Australian dollar compared with the US dollar and our other reporting currencies resulted in a decrease in our reported earnings of approximately 9% in fiscal 2011. Currency exchange rates have been extremely volatile in recent periods. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the value of investments in overseas subsidiaries and associated companies and adversely affect our accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations could also negatively impact compliance with credit agreements. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. All of our borrowings have variable interest rates. It may not be possible for us to effectively hedge against changes in interest rates at all, or on an economically reasonable basis. Increases in market interest rates would increase our borrowing costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of export sales could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our recycled metal sales is exported to markets outside of Australia, the US and the UK, with significant sales to customers in China, Turkey, and South Korea. If business opportunities in these markets were to decline significantly for any reason and alternative markets could not be found at comparable market prices, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other risks associated with our export business include, among other factors, political and economic factors, economic conditions in the world’s economies, changes in legal and regulatory requirements, purchases or exports of recycled metal, freight costs and customer collection risks. Any of these factors could result in lower export sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to competition from containerized recycled metal exports which can negatively affect our port operations and marketing programs. We generate a significant portion of our earnings from the export of recycled metal. There has been an increasing recent trend of containers being used to export recycled metal. These containers are being used for exporting materials at a relatively low cost because vessel operators provide lower freight costs to container shippers relative to bulk shippers. Small recycled metal operators, principally in the Southwestern US, have been exporting significant quantities of recycled metal in containers in competition with us. The increasing competition from containerized recycled metal exports may reduce scrap intake to our yards and our gross margin on export sales, and accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents The commercial counterparties we transact with may not meet their obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We commercially contract with a large number of commercial and financial counterparties including customers, suppliers and financial institutions. We generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, certain of our customers have in the past sought to terminate or modify their contracts on short notice without the payment of monetary or other penalties. The global financial crisis has placed strains on global financial markets, reduced liquidity and impacted business conditions generally. Our existing counterparty credit controls may not prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer or financial counterparty. In addition, customers or suppliers may fail to perform against existing contracts and obligations causing us to remarket our scrap and potentially realize lower prices and margins. These factors could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Potential credit losses from significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with the sale of products (other than sales with letters of credit), we generally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables nor do we typically purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair our collection of those receivables. We sell scrap metals to steel mills and other consumers which may have difficulty refinancing maturing obligations because of the conditions prevailing in the global credit markets. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely in part on lines of credit from commercial banks to finance our operations. Our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we were unable to continue to have access to bank financing on acceptable terms. As of June 30, 2011, the total amount available under these facilities was A$1,419.7 million of which A$330.8 million was outstanding, resulting in A$1,088.9 million of additional borrowing availability under the facilities. At June 30, 2011, we also had cash balances of approximately A$165.5 million. If these banking institutions were to fail or to otherwise become unable or unwilling to satisfy their obligations to us under our credit agreements, then these events would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the credit facilities contain customary events of default. The occurrence of an event of default under a credit facility could result in the termination of such credit facility by the relevant lender and, due to the existence of cross default provisions among our various lenders, could result in the termination of all of our credit facilities. Should these events occur, then they would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to certain financial covenants under the credit facilities which are measured on a bi-annual basis. If we are unable to comply with such covenants then such non-compliance would result in a deemed default under the facilities due to the aforementioned cross default provisions. Although we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants in our credit facilities as of June 30, 2011, based on economic uncertainty and its lingering effects on commodity markets, there can be no assurance given that we will be able to continue to comply with our financial or other obligations under the credit facilities. Our credit facilities mature in June 2014. There can be no assurance that we will be able to extend or refinance our existing credit facilities when they mature. If we are able to extend or refinance our existing credit facilities, there can be no assurance that the financial and other terms of the new facilities will be comparable to the terms of our existing credit facilities or that the available terms will be acceptable to us. Our inability to extend or refinance our existing credit facilities at all, or on terms comparable to the terms of our existing credit facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of our managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations depend heavily on the skills and efforts of our senior management team. In addition, we rely substantially on the experience of the management of our businesses with regard to day-to-day operations. While we have employment agreements with certain of our senior management team, we may be unable to retain the services of any of those individuals. The terms of the employment contracts with our Group CEO and Group CFO both expire on June 30, 2012, unless otherwise extended. The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our compensation plans incorporate a long-term incentive element that relates to our common stock. In recent years, due to the decline in our share price, this element of compensation has not been meaningful to employees and could adversely affect retention. We may not be able to negotiate future labor contracts on favorable terms. Many of our employees are represented by various labor unions. As the agreements with those unions expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacements of them on terms favorable to us, or at all, or avoid strikes, lockouts or other labor actions from time to time. Therefore, as labor contracts expire, we cannot be assured that new labor agreements will be reached with our unions or on terms that we find acceptable. Any labor action resulting from the failure to reach an agreement with our unions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, as a result of adverse market conditions, could result in an impairment of such assets and adversely affect our results of operations, the price of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. In accordance with IFRS, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, or CGU, to which the goodwill relates. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In fiscal 2009, the global financial crisis and recession led to the decline in our market capitalization and negatively affected the fair value of our CGUs for purposes of our periodic testing of goodwill for impairment. As a result, we recorded A$191.1 million of goodwill impairment charges in fiscal 2009. As of June 30, 2011, the balance of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets was A$988.7 million and A$136.2 million, respectively. While there was no goodwill impairment charge recorded in fiscal 2011, a change in any of the key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of our CGUs could have resulted in additional goodwill impairment. Refer to Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report for an analysis of the effect of changes in the forecasted cash flows and discount rates. The metal recycling industry is highly cyclical and we are more likely than other less cyclical companies in other industries to incur impairment losses due to variability in our earnings and cash flows. We may be required to record additional impairment charges relating to goodwill and other identified intangibles in future periods if the fair value of any of our CGUs declines below the fair value of related assets net of liabilities. Any additional impairment charges will negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of legal claims and other liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the risk of legal claims and other liabilities arising in connection with the operation of our business that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These claims and liabilities may include (i) claims by employees or former employees relating to personal injury, compensation or employment law violations; (ii) environmental, land use and other claims arising out of the ownership or operation of facilities; and (iii) disputes with customers, suppliers and other business relations. The nature of our business may make us more likely than some other companies to be exposed to the risk of legal claims and other liabilities. In particular, metal recycling companies are generally exposed to higher risks of environmental claims and liabilities than companies in non-manufacturing industries, and employees working in the metal recycling industry may be more likely to suffer workplace injuries than employees of companies in other industries. The resolution of these claims and other liabilities may require us to pay material damages or other costs to third parties, including potentially punitive, exemplary or other special damages. The resolution of claims may also involve an extensive commitment of senior management’s time and attention, and may require changes in our business practices resulting in decreased revenues or profits or additional costs. Even if claims or other liabilities are resolved successfully, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against such matters. Our tax liabilities may substantially increase if the tax laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate change or become subject to adverse interpretations or inconsistent enforcement. Taxes payable by companies in many of the countries in which we operate are substantial and include value added tax, excise duties, taxes on income (including profits and capital gains), payroll related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. Tax laws and regulations in some of these countries may be subject to frequent change, varying interpretation and inconsistent enforcement. In addition, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted transfer pricing legislation. If tax authorities impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that taxing authorities in the countries in which we operate will introduce additional revenue raising measures. The introduction of any such provisions may affect our overall tax efficiency and could result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. Any such additional tax exposure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may face a significant increase in income taxes if tax rates increase or the tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or treaties between those jurisdictions are modified in an adverse manner. This may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance policies provide coverage with limitations, potentially leaving us uninsured against some business risks. The occurrence of an event that is uninsurable or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance on property and equipment in amounts believed to be consistent with industry practices but we are not fully insured against all business risks. Our insurance policies cover physical loss or damage to property and equipment arising from a number of specified risks, including business interruption arising from the occurrence of an insured event under the policies. Under these policies, damages and losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods, are also covered. We also maintain various other types of insurance, such as directors and officers liability insurance, workmen’s compensation insurance and marine insurance. In general, because we believe that the cost of the premiums outweighs the benefit of coverage, we do not carry environmental impairment liability insurance. If we were to incur significant liability for environmental damage, such as a claim for soil or groundwater remediation, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we maintain trade credit insurance on receivables but only for certain customers, subject to limits that we believe are appropriate, in order to protect us against the risk of non-payment due to customers’ insolvency or other causes. Not all of our customers are or can be insured, and even when insurance is available, it may not fully cover the exposure. Notwithstanding the insurance coverage that we carry, the occurrence of an accident that causes losses in excess of limits specified under the relevant policy, or losses arising from events not covered by insurance policies, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs Our largest shareholder has significant influence over transactions requiring shareholder approval. Mitsui Raw Materials Development Pty Limited holds approximately 18% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Sims and is our largest shareholder. Under our constitution, Mitsui & Co., Ltd and any of its related corporate bodies, which are collectively referred to as Mitsui, have the right to designate a representative director to serve on our Board so long as Mitsui holds 5% or more of Sims ordinary shares and, so long as Mitsui holds 15% or more of Sims ordinary shares, then Mitsui has the right to designate both a representative director and an independent director to serve on our Board. Currently, M. Paul Sukagawa is Mitsui’s designated representative director and Christopher J. Renwick is Mitsui’s designated independent director. Mitsui may have interests with respect to its investment in Sims that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of other holders of Sims ordinary shares or ADSs. The extent of Mitsui’s shareholding in Sims could also have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of Sims and may preclude holders of Sims ordinary shares or ADSs from receiving any premium above the market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of Sims. If we were to lose our foreign private issuer status under US federal securities laws, we would likely incur additional expenses associated with compliance with the US securities laws applicable to US domestic issuers. We are a foreign private issuer, as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and, therefore, we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, applicable to US domestic issuers. In order to maintain this status, a majority of our ordinary shares, including ordinary shares underlying our ADSs, must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the US as we do not currently satisfy any of the additional requirements necessary to preserve this status. Currently, we believe that a majority of our ordinary shares are held by non-residents of the US. If we lost this status, we would be required to comply with the Exchange Act reporting and other requirements applicable to US domestic issuers, which are more detailed and extensive than the requirements for foreign private issuers. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under US securities laws if we are required to comply with the reporting requirements applicable to a US domestic issuer may be significantly higher than the cost we would incur as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, as permitted by the listing requirements of the NYSE, we may rely on certain home country governance practices rather than the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We intend to comply with the corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. However, as a foreign private issuer, we are permitted by the listing requirements of the NYSE to rely on home country governance requirements and certain exemptions thereunder rather than relying on the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. For an overview of our corporate governance 16 Table of Contents principles, see “Item 16.G. — Corporate Governance.” Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers. 