ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves risks. Prior to making a decision about investing in our ordinary shares, you should consider carefully the factors discussed below and the information contained in this Annual Report. Each of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition, and cause the value of our ordinary shares to decline, which may result in the loss of all or part of your investment. Our exclusive license to provide water to retail customers in the Cayman Islands may not be renewed in the future. In the Cayman Islands, we provide water to retail customers under a license originally issued to us in December 1979 by the Cayman Islands government that grants us the exclusive right to provide water to retail customers within our licensed service area. Our service area is comprised of an area on Grand Cayman that includes the Seven Mile Beach and West Bay areas, two of the three most populated areas in the Cayman Islands. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated approximately 40% of our consolidated revenue from our retail water operations conducted pursuant to our exclusive license. Our license expires in July 2010. If we are not in default of any terms of the license, we have a right of first refusal to renew the license on terms that are no less favorable than those that the government offers to any third party. If we are unable to renew our license or negotiate a new license on satisfactory terms, we could lose a significant portion of our current revenues and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. We rely on fixed-term water supply and/or service agreements with our bulk customers in the Cayman Islands, Belize and The Bahamas, which may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms less favorable to us. All of our bulk water supply agreements are for fixed terms ranging originally from seven to 23 years and with a range of approximately one to 19 years remaining. Upon expiration, these agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed on less favorable terms. In addition, certain of these agreements for plants not owned by us provide for our customers to take over the operations of the plant upon expiration of the contract term. If this occurs, we may no longer generate income from such plant. In instances where we own the plant that produces the water under an agreement that is not renewed or renewed with lower production quantities, we may not be able to find a new customer for the plant’s excess production capacity. If our fixed-term agreements are not renewed or are renewed on less favorable terms, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The water supply agreement between the British Virgin Islands Water and Sewerage Department and our affiliate, OC-BVI, is on a month-to-month basis and could be cancelled or renegotiated on less favorable terms. Since the expiration of the initial term of their bulk water supply agreement in May 1999, OC-BVI has supplied water to the British Virgin Islands Water and Sewerage Department under what it considers to be a month-to-month supply arrangement. Under this arrangement, the British Virgin Islands government could cease purchasing water from OC-BVI at any time. OC-BVI has continued to make attempts to negotiate a new water supply agreement. However, this agreement may not be renewed and a new agreement may not be reached. If a new agreement is obtained, it may be on terms less favorable to OC-BVI than the current arrangement. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 we recognized approximately $1.6 million, $1.4 million and $1.4 million, respectively, in income from our equity investment in the earnings of OC-BVI. For these same years, we recognized approximately $669,000, $1,500,000 and $680,000, respectively, in revenues from our agreement to provide management services to OC-BVI. We also recognized approximately $445,000, $508,000, and $485,000 in other income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, from a profit-sharing agreement we have with OC-BVI. As of December 31, 2007, our loans to, and equity investment in, OC-BVI equaled approximately $17.5 million and the recorded value of our management services agreement, which is reflected on our balance sheet as an intangible asset, was approximately $856,000. In the event that the British Virgin Islands government ceased purchasing water from OC-BVI, or entered into a new contract with OC-BVI on less favorable terms than the existing supply arrangement, the values of our investment in OC-BVI, loan to OC-BVI and OC-BVI intangible asset would decline, and we could be required to record impairment charges to reduce the carrying values of these assets. Such impairment charges could reduce our earnings and could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents The British Virgin Islands government has asserted a purported right of ownership of OC-BVI’s Baughers Bay plant. If this right is found to be enforceable and is exercised by the government, OC-BVI will lose ownership of the Baughers Bay plant. In October 2006, the British Virgin Islands government notified OC-BVI that it was asserting a purported right of ownership of OC-BVI’s desalination plant in Baughers Bay, Tortola pursuant to the terms of a water supply agreement dated May 1990 (or the “1990 Agreement”) and invited OC-BVI to submit a proposal for its continued involvement in the production of water at the Baughers Bay plant. While OC-BVI believes that the government’s claim can be resolved to the satisfaction of both parties through the negotiation of a new agreement, we cannot assure you that the government shares this belief or that such a result will occur. On November 15, 2007, OC-BVI issued a demand letter to the BVI Government for approximately $6.2 million representing amounts that OC-BVI claimed were due by the BVI Government for water sold and delivered plus interest and legal fees. In response to OC-BVI’s demand for payment, the BVI Government issued a letter dated November 19, 2007 that reasserted its claim that ownership of the Baughers Bay plant has passed to the BVI Government and rejected OC-BVI’s claim for payment. OC-BVI advised the BVI Government in correspondence dated November 21, 2007 that it was demanding that the dispute between OC-BVI and the BVI Government be submitted to arbitration pursuant to the terms of the 1990 Agreement. On the following day, OC-BVI’s management was informed that the BVI Government had filed a lawsuit with the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court seeking ownership of the Baughers Bay plant. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 we recognized approximately $1.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively in income from our equity investment in the earnings of OC-BVI and approximately $669,000 and $1.5 million in revenue, respectively, from our agreement to provide management services to OC-BVI. We also recognized approximately $445,000 and $508,000 in other income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, from a profit-sharing agreement we have with OC-BVI. As of December 31, 2007, our loans to, and equity investment in, OC-BVI totaled approximately $17.5 million and the recorded value of our management services agreement, which is reflected on our balance sheet as an intangible asset, was approximately $856,000. If the government’s right of ownership under the 1990 Agreement is found to be enforceable, OC-BVI may be forced to accept a water supply arrangement with the government on less favorable terms, and if the government exercises its purported right, OC-BVI could lose ownership of the Baughers Bay plant. In either case, the value of our OC-BVI-related assets would decline, and we could be required to record impairment charges to reduce the carrying values of these assets. Such impairment charges would reduce our earnings and could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our income from OC-BVI may be reduced if OC-BVI continues to experience difficulty in collecting the amounts it invoices to the BVI government. Early in 2007, the British Virgins Island Government unilaterally took the position that until such time as a new agreement is reached on the ownership of the Baughers Bay plant and the price for the water produced by the plant, the BVI Government would only pay that amount of OC-BVI’s invoices that the Ministry purports constitutes OC-BVI’s costs of producing the water. At its proposed interim price, the Ministry would pay only approximately 30% of the amounts billed by OC-BVI pending a new agreement. OC-BVI responded to the Ministry that the amount the Ministry proposed to pay was significantly less than OC-BVI’s production costs. Payments made by the Ministry to OC-BVI since the Ministry’s assumption of this reduced price have been sporadic and as of December 31, 2007 OC-BVI had received payment for less than 22% of the amounts it billed the Ministry for the year then ended. As of December 31, 2007 OC-BVI had $8.2 million in gross accounts receivable balances due from the BVI Government. In January 2008 the BVI Government remitted a partial payment on these receivables to OC-BVI of $3.5 million. If OC-BVI continues to experience difficulty in collecting the amounts it invoices to the BVI Government, it may be required to defer, or reserve for, all or a portion of the revenues it invoices but has not yet collected from the BVI Government. Should this occur, the income amounts we record from our various OC-BVI related assets would decline, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We do not have sole control over our affiliate, OC-BVI. A divergence of our interests and the interests of OC-BVI’s other voting shareholder may adversely affect the operations of OC-BVI and in turn decrease the value of our investment in OC-BVI. We own 43.5% of the equity and 50% of the voting shares of OC-BVI. We and Sage, which owns the remaining 50% of the voting shares, are each entitled to appoint three of the six directors of OC-BVI. If there is a vote of the directors on any matter, the president of the Caribbean Water and Wastewater Association, a regional trade association comprised primarily of government representatives, is entitled to appoint a temporary director to cast the deciding vote. As a result, although we provide operating management and engineering services to OC-BVI, we share the overall management of OC-BVI with Sage and do not fully control its operations. A divergence of our interests and the interests of Sage could adversely affect the operations of OC-BVI and in turn decrease the value of our investment in OC-BVI, in which case we could be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our investment in OC-BVI. Such an impairment charge would reduce our earnings and have a significant adverse impact on our result of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The profitability of our plants is dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs of their construction and operation. The cost estimates prepared in connection with the construction and operation of our plants are subject to inherent uncertainties. Additionally, the terms of our supply contracts may require us to guarantee the price of desalinated water on a per unit basis, subject to certain annual inflation and monthly fuel cost adjustments, and to assume the risk that the costs associated with producing this water may be greater than anticipated. Because we base our contracted price of water in part on our estimation of future construction and operating costs, the profitability of our plants is dependent on our ability to estimate these costs accurately. The cost of materials and services and the cost of the delivery of such services may increase significantly after we submit our bid for a plant, which could cause the gross margin and net return on investment for a plant to be less than we anticipated when the bid was made. The profit margins we initially expect to generate from a plant could be further reduced if future operating costs for that plant exceed our estimates of such costs. These future operating costs could be affected by a variety of factors, including lower than anticipated production efficiencies and hydrological conditions at the plant site that differ materially from those that existed at the time we submitted our bid. Any construction and operating costs for our plants that significantly exceed our initial estimates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are derived from two customers. A loss of, or a less favorable relationship with either of these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. Our top two bulk water customers accounted for approximately 27% and 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. If either of these customers terminate or decide not to renew their contracts with us, or renew such contracts on terms that are less favorable to us, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If OC-BVI does not obtain a contract with the BVI Government to sell water to be produced at its Bar Bay plant, it may not be able to recover the cost of its investment in the plant, which could adversely affect its operations and in turn decrease the value of our investment in OC-BVI. OC-BVI has constructed a new desalination plant located on Bar Bay, Tortola, in the British Virgin Islands. The total cost for this plant is approximately $8.0 million. We have a loan receivable outstanding from OC-BVI of $2,875,000 for the construction of this plant as of December 31, 2007. OC-BVI has constructed this plant in response to what it believes is an extreme shortage of, and a pressing demand for, potable water on the eastern end of Tortola and anticipates entering into a bulk water supply agreement with the British Virgin Islands government. However, OC-BVI does not presently have any type of agreement or understanding with the British Virgin Islands government, for the purchase of the water to be produced by its Bar Bay plant. If such an agreement is not obtained, or is not obtained on sufficiently favorable terms, OC-BVI may not be able to recover the cost of its investment in this plant, in which case we may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our loan to OC-BVI and our investment in OC-BVI. Such an impairment charge would reduce our earnings and could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are affected by tourism and are subject to seasonal fluctuations which could affect demand for our water and impact our revenues and results of operations. Our operations are affected by the levels of tourism and are subject to seasonal variations in our service areas. Demand for our water in the Cayman Islands, Belize and Bimini, The Bahamas is affected by variations in the level of tourism and local weather, primarily rainfall. Tourism in our service areas is affected by the economies of the tourists’ home countries, primarily the United States and Europe, terrorist activity and perceived threats thereof, and increased costs of fuel and airfares. We normally sell slightly more water during the first and second quarters, when the number of tourists is greater and local rainfall is less, than in the third and fourth quarters. A downturn in tourism or greater than expected rainfall in the locations we serve could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We may have difficulty accomplishing our growth strategy within and outside of our current operating areas. Our expansion both within our current operating areas and into new areas involves significant risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • regulatory risks, including government relations difficulties, local regulations and currency controls; 18 Table of Contents • receiving and maintaining necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • risks related to operating in foreign countries, including political instability, reliance on local economies, environmental problems, shortages of materials, immigration restrictions and limited skilled labor; • risks related to development of new operations, including inaccurate assessment of the demand for water, engineering difficulties and inability to begin operations as scheduled; and • risks relating to greater competition in these new territories, including the ability of our competitors to gain or retain market share by reducing prices. Even if we successfully expand our operations, we may have difficulty managing our growth. We cannot assure you that any new operations within or outside of our current operating areas will attain or maintain profitability or that the results from these new operations will not negatively affect our overall profitability. Continued production shortfalls under our Windsor supply contract could result in further rate decreases or cancellation of the contract. Our supply contract, through our subsidiary, CW-Bahamas, with the Water and Sewerage Corporation of The Bahamas (“WSC”) to supply water from our Windsor plant located on the island of New Providence in The Bahamas expires upon the earlier of either (i) March 2013 or (ii) CW-Bahamas’ supply of 13.1 billion gallons of water to the WSC. Since the plant was commissioned in 1996, fouling of its reverse osmosis membrane elements has occurred several times. From time to time since October 2004, we have been unable to deliver the minimum water volumes required under the contract because of mechanical equipment problems and membrane fouling. As a result, we have been subject to water rate decreases that decreased revenue by approximately $436,000, $400,000 and $600,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have implemented an extensive program to test and understand the cause of the membrane fouling and have expanded the production capacity of the Windsor plant in order to replace the production capacity that was lost because of membrane fouling. At present, we believe we have resolved the membrane fouling problem at the Windsor plant. However, membrane fouling may reoccur at the Windsor plant, and if we are unable to meet the production minimums due to this or other operating issues, we could be in technical default of the Windsor supply contract and subject to various adverse consequences, including further water rate decreases or cancellation of the contract by the WSC. Our operations could be harmed by hurricanes or tropical storms. A hurricane or tropical storm could cause major damage to our equipment and properties and the properties of our customers, including the large tourist properties in our areas of operation. For example, in September 2004 Hurricane Ivan caused significant damage to our plants and our customers’ properties, which adversely affected our revenues. Any future damage could cause us to lose use of our equipment and properties and incur additional repair costs. Damage to our customers’ properties and the adverse impact on tourism could result in a decrease in water demand. A hurricane or tropical storm could also disrupt the delivery of equipment and supplies, including electricity, necessary to our operations. These and other possible effects of hurricanes or tropical storms could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Contamination of our processed water may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our revenues. Our processed water may become contaminated by natural occurrences and by inadvertent or intentional human interference, including acts of terrorism. In the event that a portion of our processed water is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the supply of water until we are able to install treatment equipment or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water production source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat a contaminated source of plant feed water through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. An inability by us to substitute processed water from an uncontaminated water source or to adequately treat the contaminated plant feed water in a cost-effective manner may have an adverse effect on our revenues and our results of operations. Potential government decisions, actions and regulations could negatively affect our operations. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to the local regulations of the Cayman Islands, Belize, the British Virgin Islands and The Bahamas, all of which are subject to change. Any government that regulates our operations may issue legislation or adopt new regulations, including but not limited to: • restricting foreign ownership of us; • providing for the expropriation of our assets by the government; • providing for nationalization of public utilities by the government; • providing for different water quality standards; • unilaterally changing or renegotiating our licenses and agreements; • restricting the transfer of U.S. currency; or • causing currency exchange fluctuations/devaluations or making changes in tax laws. As new laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our operations and business strategy, which we may be unable to do in a cost-effective manner. Failure by us to comply with applicable regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines, or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The rates we charge our retail customers in the Cayman Islands are subject to regulation. If we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to cover our projected expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Under our exclusive retail license in the Cayman Islands, we must obtain prior approval from the Cayman Islands government to increase our water supply rates, except for inflation-related adjustments. However, the expenses we incur in supplying water under this license may increase due to circumstances that were unforeseen at the time we entered into the license. We may incur additional costs in attempting to obtain government approval of any rate increase, which may be granted on a delayed basis, if at all. Failure to obtain timely and adequate rate increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on the efforts of key employees. Our failure to retain these employees could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends upon the abilities of our executive officers. In particular, the loss of the services of Fredrick W. McTaggart, our President and Chief Executive Officer, could be detrimental to our operations and our continued success. Mr. McTaggart has an employment agreement expiring on December 31, 2009. Each year, the term of this agreement may be extended for an additional year. However, we cannot guarantee that Mr. McTaggart will continue to work for us during the term of his agreement or will enter into any extensions thereof. We are exposed to credit risk through our relationships with several customers and our affiliate. We are subject to credit risk posed by possible defaults in payment by our bulk water customers in the Cayman Islands, Belize, the British Virgin Islands and The Bahamas and by possible defaults in payment of loan receivables by OC-BVI and Water Authority-Cayman. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, those parties could impair their ability to pay us or cause them to delay payment. We depend on these parties to pay us on a timely basis. Our outstanding accounts receivable are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of variations in currency exchange rates. Although we report our results in United States dollars, the majority of our revenue is earned in other currencies. All of the currencies in our operating areas have been fixed to the United States dollar for over 20 years and we do not employ a hedging strategy against exchange rate risk associated with our reporting in United States dollars. If any of these fixed exchange rates becomes a floating exchange rate our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may enter new markets in the future in which we do not have a contractual commitment for our products or existing customers. Our strategy contemplates potential entry into new markets where we believe a demand for potable water exists beyond the current supply of potable water in those markets We may decide to enter such markets by building new reverse osmosis desalination plants before we have obtained a contract for the sale of water produced by the new plant or before we have established a customer base for the water produced by the new plant. If after completing such plant we are unable to obtain a contract or sufficient number of customers for the plant, we may be unable to recover the cost of our investment in the plant, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future sales of our ordinary shares may depress the market price of our ordinary shares. If we or our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of ordinary shares or if it is perceived that such sales could occur, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. In addition, if these sales were to occur, we may find it difficult to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem desirable. We may not pay dividends in the future. If dividends are paid, they may be in lesser amounts than past dividends. Our shareholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have paid dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. Under the agreements governing certain of our outstanding debt obligations, we may only pay dividends from “cash flows,” defined under the applicable agreement as consolidated net income plus non-cash charges less capital expenditures and scheduled debt repayment, calculated annually on a fiscal year basis. We may incur increased capital requirements or additional indebtedness in the future that may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable corporate laws, our financial condition and results of operations, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management’s assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. Service of process and enforcement of legal proceedings commenced against us in the United States may be difficult to obtain. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, 12 out of 16 of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us and such other persons, or to enforce judgments obtained against such persons in United States courts, and bring any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts or jurisdictions located outside of the United States, rights predicated upon the United States securities laws. Based on the advice of our Cayman Islands legal counsel, Myers and Alberga, we believe there is no reciprocal statutory enforcement of foreign judgments between the United States and the Cayman Islands, and that foreign judgments originating from the United States are not directly enforceable in the Cayman Islands. A prevailing party in a United States proceeding against us or our officers or directors would have to initiate a new proceeding in the Cayman Islands using the United States judgment as evidence of the party’s claim. A prevailing party could rely on the summary judgment procedures available in the Cayman Islands, subject to available defenses in the Cayman Islands courts, including, but not limited to, the lack of competent jurisdiction in the United States courts, lack of due service of process in the United States proceeding and the possibility that enforcement or recognition of the United States judgment would be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Depending on the nature of damages awarded, civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (or the Securities Act), or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (or the Exchange Act), for original actions instituted outside the Cayman Islands may or may not be enforceable. For example, a United States judgment awarding remedies unobtainable in any legal action in the courts of the Cayman Islands, such as treble damages, would likely not be enforceable under any circumstances. Low trading volume of our stock may limit your ability to sell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our ordinary shares was approximately 79,000 shares, a much lower trading volume than the stock of many other companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. A public trading 21 Table of Contents market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our ordinary shares at any given time. This presence in turn depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. As a consequence of the limited volume of trading in our ordinary shares, an investor in our stock may have difficulty selling a large number of our ordinary shares in the manner or at the price that might be attainable if our ordinary shares were more actively traded. In addition, as a result of our low trading volume, the market price of our ordinary shares may not accurately reflect their value. Competition may threaten the sustainability and growth of our current operations and impede the expansion of our operations into new areas. We face competition in our areas of operation in renewing our present supply contracts and in our efforts to expand our current operations within those areas. We also face competition in attempting to expand our operations to new areas. We often compete with larger companies, including units of General Electric Company and Veolia Environment. Some of our current and potential competitors have technical and financial resources and marketing and service organizations that are significantly greater than ours. Moreover, our competitors may forecast the course of market developments more accurately and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our services. Additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources may enter those markets, thereby further intensifying competition. These competitors may be able to reduce our market share by adopting more aggressive pricing policies than we can adopt or by developing technology and services that gain wider market acceptance than our technology and/or services. If we do not compete successfully, we may be unable to maintain or increase our operations and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may discourage, delay or prevent changes of control of Consolidated Water Co. Ltd. Classified Board of Directors. We have a classified Board that consists of three groups of directors. Only one group of directors is elected each year. Our classified Board may increase the length of time necessary for an acquirer to change the composition of a majority of directors in order to gain control of our Board. Option Deed. Our Board of Directors has adopted an Option Deed that is intended to improve the bargaining position of our Board of Directors in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire our outstanding stock. Under the terms of the Option Deed, a stock purchase right is attached to each of our current or future outstanding ordinary shares issued prior to the time the purchase rights become exercisable, are redeemed or expire. The purchase rights will become exercisable only if an individual or group has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, or announced a tender or exchange offer that if consummated would result in such individual or group acquiring beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the rights will entitle every holder of our ordinary shares, other than the acquirer, to purchase our shares or shares of our successor on terms that would likely be economically dilutive to the acquirer. Under certain circumstances, instead of ordinary shares, our Board of Directors may issue cash or debt securities. Our Board of Directors, however, has the power to amend the Option Deed so that it does not apply to a particular acquisition proposal or to redeem the rights for a nominal value before they become exercisable. These features will likely encourage an acquirer to negotiate with our Board of Directors before commencing a tender offer or to condition a tender offer on our Board of Directors taking action to prevent the purchase rights from becoming exercisable. In March 2007, our Board extended the expiration date of the Option Deed through July 2017. As a result of these anti-takeover measures, we could deter efforts to make changes to, or exercise control over, current management. In addition, our shareholders may not have an opportunity to sell their ordinary shares to a potential acquirer at the acquirer’s offering price, which is typically at a premium to market price. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and trust deeds could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility; our failure to comply with these covenants could cause foreclosure on our assets. Our credit facilities and the trust deeds governing the terms of our debt securities contain restrictive covenants. These covenants and requirements limit our ability, without approval of the lender or trustee, to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, guaranteeing indebtedness, engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, and paying dividends and making distributions or other restricted payments. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors which may not be required to operate under these or similar restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, acquisition or investment opportunities. A material breach of any of these covenants would constitute a default under our credit facilities or trust deeds. In the event of default, the lender or trustee may accelerate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. If we are unable to repay the amounts accelerated, the lender or trustee has the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets, which we have pledged to secure that indebtedness. Foreclosure upon our assets would have a significant adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 