ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common shares involves risks. Prior to making a decision about investing in our common shares, you should consider carefully the factors discussed below and the information contained in this Annual Report. Each of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition, and cause the value of our common shares to decline, which may result in the loss of all or part of your investment. Our exclusive license to provide water to retail customers in the Cayman Islands may not be renewed in the future. In the Cayman Islands, we provide water to retail customers under a 20-year license issued to us in July 1990 by the Cayman Islands government that grants us the exclusive right to provide water to retail customers within our licensed service area. Our service area is comprised of an area on Grand Cayman that includes the Seven Mile Beach and West Bay areas, two of the three most populated areas in the Cayman Islands. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated approximately 42% of our consolidated revenues and 51% of our consolidated gross profits from the retail water operations conducted pursuant to our exclusive license. If we are not in default of any terms of the license, we have a right of first refusal to renew the license on terms that are no less favorable than those that the government offers to any third party. This license was set to expire on July 10, 2010, however we and the Cayman Islands government have agreed in correspondence to extend the license seven times in order to provide sufficient time to negotiate the terms of a new license agreement. We were advised by letter dated February 16, 2012 from Water Authority-Cayman that the government had approved an extension of the License until June 30, 2012. We are currently waiting for the government to execute such license extension. On February 14, 2011, the Water Production and Supply Law, 2011 (which replaces the Water (Production and Supply) Law (1996 Revision) under which the Company is licensed) and the Water Authority (Amendment) Law, 2011 (the “New Laws”) were published on terms that they would come into force on such date as may be appointed by Order made by the Governor in Cabinet. Such Order was subsequently made by Cabinet and the New Laws are now in full force and effect. Under the New Laws, the Water Authority-Cayman would issue any new license which could include a rate of return on invested capital model described below. We have been informed during our retail license renewal negotiations conducted with representatives of the Cayman Islands government that the Cayman Islands government seeks to restructure the terms of our license to employ a “rate of return on invested capital model” similar to that governing the sale of water to many U.S. municipalities. We have formally objected to the implementation of a “rate of return on invested capital model” on the basis that we believe that such a model would not promote the efficient operation of our water utility and could ultimately increase water rates to our customers. We believe such a model, if ultimately implemented, could significantly reduce the operating income and cash flows we have historically generated from our retail license and could require us to record an impairment loss to reduce the $1.2 million carrying value of our retail segment’s goodwill. Such impairment loss could be material to our results of operations. If a new long-term license agreement is not entered into with the government, we would retain a right of first refusal to renew the license on terms that are no less favorable than those that the government might offer in the future to a third party. If we do not enter into a new license agreement, and no other party is awarded a license, we expect to be permitted to continue to supply water to our service area. However, the terms of such continued supply may not be as favorable to us as the terms in the July 11, 1990 license agreement. It is possible that the government could offer a third party a license to service some or all of our present service area. In such event, we may assume the license offered to the third party by exercising our right of first refusal. The terms of the new license agreement may not be as favorable to us as the terms under which we are presently operating and could reduce the operating income and cash flows we have historically generated from our retail license and could require us to record an impairment loss to reduce the $1.2 million carrying value of our retail segment’s goodwill. Such impairment loss could be material to our results of operations. 21 The value of our investment in our affiliate OC-BVI is dependent upon the collection of amounts recently awarded by the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court. In October 2006, the British Virgin Islands government notified OC-BVI that it was asserting a purported right of ownership of OC-BVI’s desalination plant in Baughers Bay, Tortola pursuant to the terms of a 1990 Agreement. Early in 2007, the British Virgin Islands government unilaterally took the position that until such time as a new agreement is reached on the ownership of the Baughers Bay plant and for the price of the water produced by the plant, the BVI government would only pay that amount of OC-BVI’s invoices that the BVI government purported constituted OC-BVI’s costs of producing the water. Payments made by the BVI government to OC-BVI since the BVI government’s assumption of this reduced price were sporadic. On November 22, 2007, OC-BVI’s management was informed that the BVI government had filed a lawsuit with the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (the “Court”) seeking ownership and possession of the Baughers Bay plant. OC-BVI counterclaimed that it was entitled to continued possession and operation of the Baughers Bay plant until the BVI government paid OC-BVI approximately $4.7 million, which it believed represented the value of the Baughers Bay plant at its present expanded production capacity. OC-BVI also took the legal position that since the BVI government never paid the $1.42 million required under the 1990 Agreement to purchase the Baughers Bay plant, the 1990 Agreement terminated on May 31, 1999, which was eight months after the date that the Ministry provided written notice of its intention to purchase the plant. On July 4, 2008, OC-BVI filed a claim with the Court, and on April 22, 2009 amended and increased this claim, seeking recovery of amounts for water sold and delivered to the BVI government from the Baughers Bay plant through May 31, 2009 based upon the contract prices in effect before the BVI government asserted its purported right of ownership of the plant. The Court held a trial in July 2009 to address both the Baughers Bay ownership issue and OC-BVI’s claim for payment of amounts owed for water sold and delivered to the BVI government and on September 17, 2009, the Court issued a preliminary ruling with respect to this litigation. The Court determined that the BVI government was entitled to immediate possession of the Baughers Bay plant and dismissed OC-BVI’s claim for compensation of approximately $4.7 million for improvements to the plant. However, the Court determined that OC-BVI was entitled to full payment of water invoices issued up to December 20, 2007, which had been calculated under the terms of the original 1990 water supply agreement, and ordered the BVI government to make an immediate interim payment of $5.0 million to OC-BVI for amounts owed to OC-BVI. The Court deferred deciding the entire dispute between the parties until it could conduct a hearing to determine the reasonable rate for water produced by OC-BVI for the period subsequent to December 20, 2007. After conducting hearings in October 2009, the Court ordered the BVI government to pay OC-BVI at the rate of $13.91 per thousand imperial gallons for water produced by OC-BVI for the period subsequent to December 20, 2007, which amounted to a total recovery for OC-BVI of $10.4 million as of September 17, 2009. The BVI government made a payment of $2.0 million to OC-BVI under the Court order during the fourth quarter of 2009, a second payment of $2 million under the Court order in July 2010 and a third payment of $1 million under the Court order in February 2011. On October 28, 2009, OC-BVI filed an appeal with the Eastern Caribbean Court of Appeals (the “Appellate Court”) asking the Appellate Court to review the September 17, 2009 ruling by the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court as it relates to OC-BVI’s claim for compensation for improvements to the Baughers Bay plant. On October 29, 2009, the BVI government filed an appeal with the Appellate Court seeking the Appellate Court’s review of the September 17, 2009 ruling of the Court that the BVI government pay OC-BVI the reasonable rate for water produced by OC-BVI for the period subsequent to December 20, 2007. The BVI government is requesting a ruling from the Appellate Court that the BVI government should only pay OC-BVI the actual cost of water produced at the plant. In March 2011, the BVI government filed an application with the Appellate Court for a stay of execution of the judgments of the Court in order to defer any further payments of amounts under the Court order until such time as the Appellate Court rules on the appeal. On September 30, 2011, the Appellate Court conducted its hearing of the arguments of both parties under their respective appeals. While we anticipated that the Appellate Court would issue its ruling on these appeals by the end of 2011, no ruling has been issued to date. We have not been informed when to expect the Appellate Court to issue its ruling. After considering the impact of the September and October 2009 rulings of the Court of the Caribbean relating to the Baughers Bay dispute and the announcement by the BVI government in February 2010 that it had signed a long-term contract with another company for the construction and operation of a new water plant to serve Tortola, we determined that the carrying value of our investment in OC-BVI exceeded the estimated fair value for our investment in OC-BVI and therefore recognized impairment losses aggregating approximately $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 to reduce our investment in OC-BVI to its estimated fair value. The remaining carrying value of our investment in OC-BVI of $6.6 million as of December 31, 2011 assumes OC-BVI will collect in full the remaining $5.4 million awarded by the Court and will not be required to return any of the $5.0 million paid to date by the BVI government under the Court order. Should the BVI government be successful in its appeal to reduce the $10.4 million award, we will be required to record charges that will reduce our earnings by an amount equal to approximately 44% of any reduction of the $10.4 million previously awarded by the Court. Such charges could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The staff of the SEC is presently reviewing our goodwill impairment testing for 2011, and we could ultimately be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of this asset. The market price of our common stock has declined over the past twelve months and at times during this period, our market capitalization has been less than the carrying value of our stockholders equity. The staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) has inquired (through comment letters issued in connection with their periodic reviews of our recent annual and quarterly filings) as to what consideration we have given to recognizing an impairment of our goodwill in light of the extent, and the duration of time, our market capitalization has been below the carrying value of our stockholders equity. We have responded to the Staff that, based upon our impairment testing for 2011, we have concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2011. At their request, we have provided the Staff with the supporting calculations, assumptions and methodologies utilized for our 2011 goodwill impairment testing. The Staff is presently reviewing this information. Our goodwill amounted to $3,587,754 as of December 31, 2011. While we have concluded that this goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2011, the Staff could disagree with our conclusion and we could ultimately be required to record an impairment charge for a portion or all of this goodwill as of December 31, 2011 or as of a later date. Such impairment charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 or the results of operations for future periods. 22 We rely on fixed-term water supply agreements with our bulk customers in the Cayman Islands, Belize and The Bahamas, which may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms less favorable to us. All of our bulk water supply agreements are for fixed terms ranging originally from seven to 23 years and with a range of approximately one to 20 years remaining. Upon expiration, these agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms less favorable to us. In addition, certain of these agreements for plants not owned by us provide for our customers to take over the operations of the plant upon expiration of the contract term. If this occurs, we may no longer generate income from such plant. In instances where we own the plant that produces the water under an agreement that is not renewed or renewed with lower production quantities, we may not be able to find a new customer for the plant’s excess production capacity. If our fixed-term agreements are not renewed or are renewed on terms less favorable to us, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have spent almost $5 million to fund the developmental costs for a possible project in Mexico, and may elect to expend significant additional funds to pursue this project. However, we could decide after expending these additional funds that the project is not viable. In May 2010, we acquired, through our wholly-owned Netherlands subsidiary, Consolidated Water Cooperatief, U.A., a 50% interest in N.S.C. Agua, S.A. de C.V., (“NSC”) a Mexican company. NSC has been formed to pursue a project encompassing the construction, ownership and operation of a 100 million gallon per day seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant to be located in northern Baja California, Mexico and an accompanying pipeline to deliver water to a Mexican potable water system and the U.S. border. We believe such a project can be successful due to what we anticipate will be a growing need for a new potable water supply for the areas of northern Baja California, Mexico and Southern California, United States. To complete this project, we have engaged an engineering group with extensive regional experience and have partnered with Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction, a global leader in the engineering, procurement and construction of large seawater desalination plants. Once completed, we would operate the plant while retaining a minority position in its ownership. NSC is in the development stage, and is presently involved in (i) extending contracts for the purchase of land on which to build the plant, (ii) seeking contracts for the electric power and feed water sources for the plant’s proposed operations, and (iii) implementing a water quality monitoring and equipment testing program at the proposed feed water source. In addition to completing these activities, NSC will be required to complete various other steps before it can commence construction of the plant and pipeline including, but not limited to, obtaining approvals and permits from various governmental agencies in Mexico and the United States, securing contracts with its proposed customers to sell water in sufficient quantities and at prices that make the project financially viable, and obtaining equity and debt financing for the project. NSC’s potential customers will also be required to obtain various governmental permits and approvals in order to purchase water from NSC. For our 50% interest in NSC, we agreed to provide initial funding of up to $4 million in the form of equity for NSC’s development activities. As of June 30, 2011 we had met this initial funding commitment. Because we exercise effective financial control over NSC and our partners in NSC did not participate in funding the first $4 million in losses that NSC incurred, we consolidate NSC’s results of operations. Included in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are approximately $3.0 and $1.7 million respectively in general and administrative expenses from NSC, consisting of organizational, legal, accounting, engineering, consulting and other costs relating to its project development activities. The assets and liabilities of NSC included in our consolidated balance sheet amounted to approximately $27,000 and $336,000 respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and approximately $731,000 and $131,000, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. In February 2012, we acquired an option, exercisable through February 7, 2014, to purchase the shares of one of the other shareholders of NSC along with an immediate power of attorney to vote those shares. As a result, we now have effective control over NSC and are continuing its project development activities. We have determined that completing NSC’s development activities will require significantly more funding than has been expended to date. We may choose to fund these development activities ourselves or may seek funding from additional investors. We may incur significant development expenses in the future for this project without ultimately being able to obtain the funding necessary for NSC to build the project. We estimate that it will take at least two years for NSC to complete all of the development activities (which include initiating site piloting plant activities, extending purchase agreements for the land for the plant, securing feed water and power supplies, completing the engineering and feasibility studies, negotiating customer contracts, obtaining required regulatory permits and arranging the project financing) necessary to commence construction of the plant. However NSC may ultimately be unable to complete all of the activities necessary to begin construction of the project. We do not have voting control over our affiliate, OC-BVI. A divergence of our interests and the interests of OC-BVI’s other voting shareholder could adversely affect the operations of OC-BVI and decrease the value of our investment in OC-BVI. We own 43.5% of the equity and 50% of the voting shares of OC-BVI. We and Sage, which owns the remaining 50% of the voting shares, are each entitled to appoint three of the six directors of OC-BVI. If a tie vote of the directors occurs on any matter, the president of the Caribbean Water and Wastewater Association, a regional trade association comprised primarily of government representatives, is entitled to appoint a temporary director to cast the deciding vote. As a result, although we provide operating management and engineering services to OC-BVI, we share the overall management of OC-BVI with Sage and do not fully control its operations. A divergence of our interests and the interests of Sage could adversely affect the operations of OC-BVI and in turn decrease the value of our investment in OC-BVI, in which case we could be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our investment in OC-BVI. Such an impairment charge would reduce our earnings and have a significant adverse impact on our result of operations and financial condition. The profitability of our plants is dependent upon our ability to accurately estimate the costs of their construction and operation. The cost estimates prepared in connection with the construction and operation of our plants are subject to inherent uncertainties. Additionally, the terms of our supply contracts may require us to guarantee the price of water on a per unit basis, subject to certain annual inflation and monthly energy cost adjustments, and to assume the risk that the costs associated with producing this water may be greater than anticipated. Because we base our contracted price of water in part on our estimation of future construction and operating costs, the profitability of our plants is dependent on our ability to estimate these costs accurately. The cost of materials and services and the cost of the delivery of such services may increase significantly after we submit our bid for a plant, which could cause the gross profit and net return on investment for a plant to be less than we anticipated when the bid was made. The profit margins we initially expect to generate from a plant could be further reduced if future operating costs for that plant exceed our estimates of such costs. These future operating costs could be affected by a variety of factors, including lower than anticipated production efficiencies and hydrological conditions at the plant site that differ materially from those that existed at the time we submitted our bid. Any construction and operating costs for our plants that significantly exceed our initial estimates could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 23 A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are derived from two customers. A loss of, or a less favorable relationship with, either of these customers would adversely affect us. Our top two bulk water customers, the Water Authority-Cayman and the WSC, accounted for approximately 16% and 36%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. If either of these customers terminate or decide not to renew their contracts with us, or renew such contracts on terms that are less favorable to us, or become unable for financial or other reasons to comply with the terms of our contracts with them, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely affected. Possible future regulatory oversight and control could adversely impact our Belize operations. By Statutory Instrument No. 81 of 2009, the Minister of Public Utilities of the government of Belize published an order, the Public Utility Provider Class Declaration Order, 2009 (the “Order”), which as of May 1, 2009 designated CW-Belize as public utility provider under the laws of Belize. With this designation, the Public Utilities Commission of Belize (the “PUC”) has the authority to set the rates charged by CW-Belize and to otherwise regulate its activities. On November 1, 2010, CW-Belize received a formal complaint from the PUC alleging that CW-Belize was operating without a license under the terms of the Water Industry Act. CW-Belize applied for this license in December 2010. On July 29, 2011, the PUC issued the San Pedro Public Water Supply Quality and Security Complaint Order (the “Second Order”) which among other things requires that (i) CW-Belize and its customer jointly make a submission to the responsible Minister requesting that the area surrounding CW-Belize’s seawater abstraction wells be designated a forest reserve or national park and be designated a Controlled Area under section 58 of the Water Industry Act, (ii) CW-Belize submit an operations manual for CW-Belize’s desalination plant to the PUC for approval, (iii) CW-Belize and its customer modify the water supply agreement between the parties to (a) include new water quality parameters included in the Order and (b) cap the current exclusive water supply arrangement in the agreement at maximum of 450,000 gallons per day, (iv) CW-Belize keeps a minimum number of replacement seawater reverse osmosis membranes in stock at all times and (v) CW-Belize takes possession of and reimburses the PUC for certain equipment which the PUC purchased from a third-party in late 2010. CW-Belize has applied for declaratory judgment and has been granted a temporary injunction to stay the enforcement of the Second Order by the PUC until such time as the matter can be heard by the Belize courts. We are presently unable to determine what impact the Order and the Second Order will have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our operations are affected by tourism and are subject to seasonal fluctuations which could affect the demand for our water. Our operations are affected by the levels of tourism and are subject to seasonal variations in our service areas. Demand for our water in the Cayman Islands, Belize, Bimini and the Bahamas is affected by variations in the level of tourism and local weather, primarily rainfall. Tourism in our service areas is affected by the economies of the tourists’ home countries, primarily the United States and Europe, terrorist activity and perceived threats thereof, and increased costs of fuel and airfares. We normally sell more water during the first and second quarters, when the number of tourists is greater and local rainfall is less, than in the third and fourth quarters. A downturn in tourism or greater than expected rainfall in the locations we serve could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. 24 We may have difficulty accomplishing our growth strategy within and outside of our current operating areas. Our expansion both within our current operating areas and into new areas involves significant risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • regulatory risks, including government relations difficulties, local regulations, currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • receiving and maintaining necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • risks related to operating in foreign countries, including political instability, reliance on local economies, environmental problems, shortages of materials, immigration restrictions and limited skilled labor; • risks related to development of new operations, including inaccurate assessment of the demand for water, engineering difficulties and inability to begin operations as scheduled; and • risks relating to greater competition in these new territories, including the ability of our competitors to gain or retain market share by reducing prices. Even if we successfully expand our operations, we may have difficulty managing our growth. We cannot assure you that any new operations within or outside of our current operating areas will attain or maintain profitability or that the results from these new operations will not negatively affect our overall profitability. Production shortfalls under any of our bulk supply contracts could result in penalties or cancellation of the contract. Our bulk water supply contracts require us to deliver specified minimum volumes of water. During a period from October 2004 to February 2008, we were unable to deliver the minimum water volumes required under one of our bulk water supply contracts because of mechanical equipment problems and membrane fouling. We have since resolved the minimum supply issues for this plant. However, membrane fouling or other technical problems could occur at any of our plants, and if we are unable to meet the production minimums due to such operating issues, we could be in technical default of the supply contract and subject to various adverse consequences, including financial penalties or cancellation of the contract. Our operations could be harmed by hurricanes or tropical storms. A hurricane or tropical storm could cause major damage to our equipment and properties and the properties of our customers, including the large tourist properties in our areas of operation. For example, in September 2004 Hurricane Ivan caused significant damage to our plants and our customers’ properties, which adversely affected our revenues. Any future damage could cause us to lose use of our equipment and properties and incur additional repair costs. Damage to our customers’ properties and the adverse impact on tourism could result in a decrease in water demand. A hurricane or tropical storm could also disrupt the delivery of equipment and supplies, including electricity, necessary to our operations. These and other possible effects of hurricanes or tropical storms could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Contamination of our processed water may cause disruption in our services and adversely affect our revenues. Our processed water may become contaminated by natural occurrences and by inadvertent or intentional human interference, including acts of terrorism. In the event that a portion of our processed water is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the supply of water until we are able to install treatment equipment or substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water production source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat a contaminated source of plant feed water through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. An inability by us to substitute processed water from an uncontaminated water source or to adequately treat the contaminated plant feed water in a cost-effective manner may have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. Potential government decisions, actions and regulations could negatively affect our operations. We are subject to the local regulations of the Cayman Islands, Belize, the British Virgin Islands, and The Bahamas, all of which are subject to change. Any government that regulates our operations may issue legislation or adopt new regulations, including but not limited to: • restricting foreign ownership of us; • providing for the expropriation of our assets by the government; • providing for nationalization of public utilities by the government; • providing for different water quality standards; • unilaterally changing or renegotiating our licenses and agreements; • restricting the transfer of U.S. currency; or • causing currency exchange fluctuations/devaluations or making changes in tax laws. As new laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our operations and business strategy, which we may be unable to do in a cost-effective manner. Failure by us to comply with applicable regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines, or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 25 The rates we charge our retail customers in the Cayman Islands are subject to regulation. If we are unable to obtain government approval of our requests for rate increases, or if approved rate increases are untimely or inadequate to cover our projected expenses, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Under our exclusive retail license in the Cayman Islands, with the exception of annual inflation-related and monthly energy-related adjustments, we cannot increase the base rates we charge our retail customers without prior approval from the Cayman Islands government. However, the expenses we incur in supplying water under this license may increase due to circumstances that were unforeseen at the time we entered into the license. We may incur additional costs in attempting to obtain government approval of any rate increase, which may be granted on a delayed basis, if at all. Failure to obtain timely and adequate rate increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on the efforts of key employees. Our failure to retain these employees could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends upon the abilities of our executive officers. In particular, the loss of the services of Fredrick W. McTaggart, our President and Chief Executive Officer, could be detrimental to our operations and our continued success. Mr. McTaggart has an employment agreement expiring on December 31, 2014. Each year, the term of this agreement may be extended for an additional year. However, we cannot guarantee that Mr. McTaggart will continue to work for us during the term of his agreement or will enter into any extensions thereof. We are exposed to credit risk through our relationships with several customers. We are subject to credit risk posed by possible defaults in payment by our bulk water customers in the Cayman Islands, Belize, the British Virgin Islands and The Bahamas and by possible defaults in payment of loan receivables by the Water Authority-Cayman. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, those parties could impair their ability to pay us or cause them to delay payment. We depend on these parties to pay us on a timely basis. Our outstanding accounts receivable are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of variations in currency exchange rates. Although we report our results in United States dollars, the majority of our revenues are earned in other currencies. All of the currencies in our operating areas other than the Mexican peso and the Euro have been fixed to the United States dollar for over 20 years and we do not employ a hedging strategy against exchange rate risk associated with our reporting in United States dollars. If any of these fixed exchange rates becomes a floating exchange rate our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 26 We may enter new markets in the future in which we do not have a contractual commitment for our products or existing customers. Our strategy contemplates potential entry into new markets, such as Mexico and Asia, where we believe a demand for potable water exists beyond the current supply of potable water in those markets. We may incur significant business development expenses in the pursuit of new markets prior to obtaining a contract for services in these markets, and such expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We may decide to enter such markets by building new reverse osmosis desalination plants before we have obtained a contract for the sale of water produced by the new plant or before we have established a customer base for the water produced by the new plant. If after completing such plant we are unable to obtain a contract or sufficient number of customers for the plant, we may be unable to recover the cost of our investment in the plant, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not pay dividends in the future. If dividends are paid, they may be in lesser amounts than past dividends. Our shareholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have paid dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. We may incur increased capital requirements or additional indebtedness in the future that may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable corporate laws, our financial condition and results of operations, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management’s assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. We may not continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, they may not be in amounts similar to past dividends. 27 Service of process and enforcement of legal proceedings commenced against us in the United States may be difficult to obtain. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, 10 of our 16 directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process within the United States upon us and such other persons, or to enforce judgments obtained against such persons in United States courts, and bring any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts or jurisdictions located outside of the United States, rights predicated upon the United States securities laws. Based on the advice of our Cayman Islands legal counsel, we believe there is no reciprocal statutory enforcement of foreign judgments between the United States and the Cayman Islands, and that foreign judgments originating from the United States are not directly enforceable in the Cayman Islands. A prevailing party in a United States proceeding against us or our officers or directors would have to initiate a new proceeding in the Cayman Islands using the United States judgment as evidence of the party’s claim. A prevailing party could rely on the summary judgment procedures available in the Cayman Islands, subject to available defenses in the Cayman Islands courts, including, but not limited to, the lack of competent jurisdiction in the United States courts, lack of due service of process in the United States proceeding and the possibility that enforcement or recognition of the United States judgment would be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Depending on the nature of damages awarded, civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (or the Securities Act), or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (or the Exchange Act), for original actions instituted outside the Cayman Islands may or may not be enforceable. For example, a United States judgment awarding remedies unobtainable in any legal action in the courts of the Cayman Islands, such as treble damages, would likely not be enforceable under any circumstances. Low trading volume of our stock may limit your ability to sell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the average daily trading volume of our common shares was approximately 64,300 shares, a much lower trading volume than the stock of many other companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence in turn depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. As a consequence of the limited volume of trading in our common shares, an investor in our stock may have difficulty selling a large number of our common shares in the manner or at the price that might be attainable if our common shares were more actively traded. In addition, as a result of our low trading volume, the market price of our common shares may not accurately reflect their value. We are subject to anti-takeover measures that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company. Classified Board of Directors. We have a classified Board that consists of three groups of directors. Only one group of directors is elected each year. Our classified Board may increase the length of time necessary for an acquirer to change the composition of a majority of directors in order to gain control of our Board. 28 Option Deed. Our Board of Directors has adopted an Option Deed that is intended to improve the bargaining position of our Board of Directors in the event of an unsolicited offer to acquire our outstanding stock. Under the terms of the Option Deed, a stock purchase right is attached to each of our current or future outstanding common shares issued prior to the time the purchase rights become exercisable, are redeemed or expire. The purchase rights will become exercisable only if an individual or group has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, or announced a tender or exchange offer that if consummated would result in such individual or group acquiring beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common shares. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the rights will entitle every holder of our common shares, other than the acquirer, to purchase our shares or shares of our successor on terms that would likely be economically dilutive to the acquirer. Under certain circumstances, instead of common shares, our Board of Directors may issue cash or debt securities. Our Board of Directors, however, has the power to amend the Option Deed so that it does not apply to a particular acquisition proposal or to redeem the rights for a nominal value before they become exercisable. These features will likely encourage an acquirer to negotiate with our Board of Directors before commencing a tender offer or to condition a tender offer on our Board of Directors taking action to prevent the purchase rights from becoming exercisable. In March 2007, our Board extended the expiration date of the Option Deed through July 2017. As a result of these anti-takeover measures, we could deter efforts to make changes to, or exercise control over, current management. In addition, our shareholders may not have an opportunity to sell their common shares to a potential acquirer at the acquirer’s offering price, which is typically at a premium to market price. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and trust deeds could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility; our failure to comply with these covenants could cause foreclosure on our assets. Our credit facilities and the trust deeds governing the terms of our debt securities contain restrictive covenants. These covenants and requirements limit our ability, without approval of the lender or trustee, to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, guaranteeing indebtedness, engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, and paying dividends and making distributions or other restricted payments. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors which may not be required to operate under these or similar restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, acquisition or investment opportunities. A material breach of any of these covenants would constitute a default under our credit facilities or trust deeds. In the event of default, the lender or trustee may accelerate repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. If we are unable to repay the amounts accelerated, the lender or trustee has the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets, which we have pledged to secure that indebtedness. Foreclosure upon our assets would have a significant adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to continue operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The market price of our common stock has declined over the past twelve months and at times during this period, our market capitalization has been less than the carrying value of our stockholders equity. The staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Staff”) has inquired (through comment letters issued in connection with their periodic reviews of our recent annual and quarterly filings) as to what consideration we have given to recognizing an impairment of our goodwill in light of the extent, and the duration of time, our market capitalization has been below the carrying value of our stockholders equity. We have responded to the Staff that, based upon our impairment testing for 2011, we have concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2011. At their request, we have provided the Staff with the supporting calculations, assumptions and methodologies utilized for our 2011 goodwill impairment testing. The Staff is presently reviewing this information. Our goodwill amounted to $3,587,754 as of December 31, 2011. While we have concluded that this goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2011, the Staff could disagree with our conclusion and we could ultimately be required to record an impairment charge for a portion or all of this goodwill as of December 31, 2011 or as of a later date. Such impairment charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 or the results of operations for future periods. 