Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF STOCK The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical and periodically has severe and prolonged downturns, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity, including reduced capital expenditures, decreased demand for our products and increased price competition. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns, whether as the result of general economic changes or capacity growth temporarily exceeding growth in demand for semiconductor devices. Our business depends in significant part upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductor devices, including manufacturers that open new or expand existing facilities. Periods of overcapacity and reductions in capital expenditures by our customers cause decreases in demand for our products. If existing fabrication facilities are not expanded and new facilities are not built, demand for our systems may not develop or increase, and we may be unable to generate significant new orders for our systems. If we are unable to develop new orders for our systems, we will not achieve anticipated net sales levels. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, our customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of ordered products and/or cancel orders, resulting in reduced revenues and backlog, delays in revenue recognition and excess inventory. Increased price competition may result, causing pressure on our gross margin and net income. In future downturns, if we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we could experience losses, may be required to undertake additional cost-cutting measures and may be unable to continue to invest in research, development and engineering at the levels we believe are necessary to maintain our competitive position in our core businesses. Our failure to make these investments could seriously harm our long-term business prospects. We are dependent on a highly concentrated customer base, and any cancellation, reduction or delay of purchases by or failure to collect receivables from these customers could harm our business. Additionally, we may not achieve anticipated revenue levels if we are not selected as "vendor of choice" for new or expanded fabrication facilities. Currently, we derive most of our revenues from the sale of systems to a relatively small number of customers, which makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor fabrication facility, these manufacturers will tend to choose semiconductor equipment manufacturers based on established relationships, product compatibility and proven financial performance. Once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular vendor's capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon equipment from this "vendor of choice" (VOC) for the specific production line application. In addition, the semiconductor manufacturer frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendors. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the VOC by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor's product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our systems and technology. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our systems and technology, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The current list prices on our systems range from $0.7 million to more than $4.0 million. Consequently, any order cancellations, delays in scheduled shipments, delays in customer acceptances or delays in collection of accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our operating results and cause our results to fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts or investors. Our list of major customers changes substantially from year to year, and we cannot predict whether a major customer in one year will make significant purchases from us in future years. Additionally, our customers' capital budget considerations and our lengthy sales cycle make the timing of customer orders uneven and difficult to predict. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results from year to year. Although we maintain a backlog of customer orders with expected shipment dates within the next 12 months, customers may request cancellations or delivery delays. As a result, our backlog may not be a reliable indication of future 10 revenues. If shipments of orders in backlog are cancelled or delayed, revenues could fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts and investors. Additionally, a large percentage of our sales are concentrated to customers in the memory market, so a downturn in memory spending could impact us more than it would impact competitors who are stronger in the logic and foundry markets. We may not be able to continue to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment industry. The semiconductor equipment industry is both highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors include the following: system performance; cost of ownership; size of the installed base; breadth of product line; delivery speed; and customer support. Competitive pressure has been increasing in several areas. In particular, there is increased price competition, and customers are waiting to make purchase commitments based on their end-user demand, which are then placed with requests for rapid delivery dates and increased product support. Some of our major competitors are larger than we are, have greater capital resources and may have a competitive advantage over us by virtue of having: broader product lines; longer operating history; greater experience with high-volume manufacturing; substantially larger customer bases; the ability to reduce price through product bundling; and substantially greater customer support, financial, technical and marketing resources. Growth in the semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly concentrated in the largest companies, resulting in increasing industry consolidation. Semiconductor companies are consolidating their vendor base and prefer to purchase from vendors with a strong, worldwide support infrastructure. For us to meet our long-term growth objectives, we must grow significantly in the short to medium-term. If we do not grow to a sufficient size, our prospects for future growth would be diminished. In addition, to expand our sales we must often displace the systems of our competitors or sell new systems to customers of our competitors. Our competitors may develop new or enhanced competitive products that will offer price or performance features that are superior to our systems. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and on-site customer support of their product lines. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. Significant fluctuations in our operating results are difficult to predict due to our lengthy sales cycle, and our results may fall short of anticipated levels, which could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of our systems depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase or replace manufacturing capacity, typically involving a significant capital commitment. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our systems requires time-consuming internal procedures associated with the evaluation, testing, implementation and introduction of new technologies into our customers' manufacturing facilities. Even after the customer determines that our systems meet their qualification criteria, we may experience delays finalizing system sales while the customer obtains approval for the purchase, constructs new facilities or expands its existing facilities. Consequently, the time between our first contact with a customer regarding a specific potential purchase and the customer's placing its first order may last from nine to twelve months or longer. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses during this evaluation period. In addition, the length of this period makes it difficult to accurately 11 forecast future sales. If sales forecasted from a specific customer are not realized, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues, and our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We incurred net losses of approximately $336.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, $69.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Although we were profitable for 2004, 2005 and 2006, we may not achieve profitability in future years. We will need to continue to generate significant sales to achieve and maintain profitability, and we may not be able to do so. A substantial percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and we may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues. As a result, any delay in generating or recognizing revenues could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We must continually anticipate technology trends, improve our existing products and develop new products in order to be competitive. The development of new or enhanced products involves significant risk and cost and delays. Technical and manufacturing difficulties incurred in the introduction of new products could be costly and adversely affect our customer relationships. The markets in which we and our customers compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. Consequently, our success depends upon our ability to anticipate future technology trends and customer needs, to develop new systems and processes that meet customer requirements and industry standards and that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance. Our development of new products involves significant risk, since the products are very complex and the development cycle is long and expensive. The success of any new systems we develop and introduce is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to correctly predict customer requirements for new processes, to assess and select the potential technologies for research and development and to timely complete new system designs that are acceptable to the market. We may make substantial investments in new technologies before we can know whether they are technically or commercially feasible or advantageous, and without any assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the associated development costs. Not all development activities result in commercially viable products. We may not be able to improve our existing systems or develop new technologies or systems in a timely manner. We may exceed the budgeted cost of reaching our research, development and engineering objectives, and planned product development schedules may require extension. Any delays or additional development costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products are complex, and we may experience technical or manufacturing inefficiencies, delays or difficulties in the prototype introduction of new systems and enhancements, or in achieving volume production of new systems or enhancements that meet customer requirements. Our inability to overcome such difficulties, to meet the technical specifications of any new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume and in a timely manner would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as our customer relationships. We may from time to time incur unanticipated costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our products early in their life cycles, and such costs can be substantial. If we encounter reliability or quality problems with our new products or enhancements, we could face a number of difficulties, including reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collection of accounts receivable and additional service and warranty expenses, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cost associated with our warranty is significant, and in the event our projections and estimates of this cost are inaccurate, our financial performance could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we experience product failures at an unexpectedly high level, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, and our business would suffer. 12 We are subject to significant risks related to our global manufacturing operations. We are increasingly outsourcing manufacturing and logistics activities to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. We have outsourced certain manufacturing and spare parts logistics functions to third-party service providers, and may outsource more of those functions in the future. While we expect to achieve operational flexibility and cost savings as a result of this, outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products or spare parts to our customers could be severely impaired. We would quickly need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity, which could be expensive and time-consuming, and could result in unforeseen operations problems and late deliveries to our customers. Substitute service providers might not be available, or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. If customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our requirements are expected to represent a small portion of the total capacities of our third-party service providers, and they may preferentially allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. In addition, such manufacturers could suffer financial difficulties or disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our control. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for some components and subassemblies, and supply shortages or the loss of these suppliers could result in increased cost or delays in manufacture and sale of our products. We rely to a substantial extent on outside vendors to provide many of the components and subassemblies of our systems. We obtain some of these components and subassemblies from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. We generally acquire these components on a purchase order basis and not under long-term supply contracts. Because of our anticipated reliance on outside vendors generally, and on a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components. Although we currently experience minimal delays in receiving goods from our suppliers, when demand for semiconductor equipment is strong, our suppliers may have difficulty providing components on a timely basis. In addition, during periods of shortages of components, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components. We often quote prices to our customers and accept customer orders for our products prior to purchasing components and subassemblies from our suppliers. If our suppliers increase the cost of components or subassemblies, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may no longer be able to increase the cost of the system being evaluated by our customers to cover all or part of the increased cost of components. The manufacture of some of these components is an extremely complex process and requires long lead times. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required components, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. This could delay our ability to manufacture or timely ship our systems, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and harm our reputation. Historically, we have not experienced any significant delays in manufacturing due to an inability to obtain components, and we are not currently aware of any specific problems regarding the availability of components that might significantly delay the manufacturing of our systems in the future. However, any inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally, could delay our ability to ship our systems and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory. We need to manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process and finished goods effectively to meet customer delivery demands at an acceptable risk and cost. Customers are increasingly requiring very short lead times for delivery, which 13 may require us to purchase and carry additional inventory. For both the inventories that support manufacture of our products and our spare parts inventories, if the customer demand we anticipate does not materialize in a timely manner, we will incur increased carrying costs and some inventory could become un-saleable or obsolete, resulting in write-offs which would adversely affect the results of our operations. We manufacture many of our products at two primary manufacturing facilities and are thus subject to risk of disruption. Although we outsource the manufacturing for certain of our products to third parties, we continue to produce our latest generation products at our two principal manufacturing plants in Fremont, California and Dornstadt, Germany. We have limited ability to interchangeably produce our products at either facility, and in the event of a disruption of operations at one facility, our other facility would not be able to make up the capacity loss. Our operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and seriously harm our business. We previously had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting During the audit of the 2005 financial statements, we identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: lack of sufficient personnel and resources to properly perform the quarterly and year-end financial statement closing processes, including the monitoring of the previously selected accounting policy for the amounts received from a patent infringement settlement, and the review of certain account reconciliations and analyses; and lack of effective controls over the computation and review of reserves for slow-moving and excess and obsolete inventory. In 2006, we undertook a number of initiatives to address these material weaknesses, and management has determined that as of December 31, 2006, the material weaknesses identified in 2005 had been remediated. In the future, however, we may identify other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date. Furthermore, if additional material weaknesses are identified in the future, the initiatives required to remedy those material weaknesses could result in additional costs for increased personnel, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are highly dependent on international sales, and face significant international business risks. International sales accounted for 89% of our net sales in 2006, 84% of our net sales in 2005 and 87% of our net sales in 2004. We anticipate international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our future net sales. Asia has been a particularly important region for our business, and we anticipate that it will continue to be important going forward. Our sales to customers located in China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and other Asian countries accounted for 82% of our net sales in 2006, 72% of our net sales in 2005 and 78% of our net sales in 2004. Because of our continuing dependence upon international sales, we are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities, including: unexpected changes in law or regulations resulting in more burdensome governmental controls, tariffs, taxes, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; exchange rate volatility; the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. export laws; political and economic instability; government sponsored competition; differing labor regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property; difficulties in accounts receivable collections; increased costs for product shipments and potential difficulties from shipment delays; difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations. 14 In the U.S. and Asia (excluding Japan), our sales to date have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, while our sales in Japan have been primarily denominated in Japanese yen. Our sales to date in Europe have been denominated in various currencies, primarily U.S. dollars and the Euro. Our sales in foreign currencies are subject to risks of currency fluctuation. For U.S. dollar sales in foreign countries, our products may become less price-competitive when the local currency is declining in value compared to the dollar. This could cause us to lose sales or force us to lower our prices, which would reduce our gross margins. In addition, the expenses of our German manufacturing operation are primarily incurred in Euros. If the Euro were to appreciate in relation to the U.S. dollar, our operating expenses would increase. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results. We are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Because of competition for qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our products. Our growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. There is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. In particular, we must attract and retain highly skilled design and process engineers. Historically, competition for such personnel has been intense in all of our locations, but particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters is located. If we are unable to retain existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may from time to time experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers. As a result, our growth could be limited, we could fail to meet our delivery commitments or we could experience deterioration in service levels or decreases in customer satisfaction. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable asset and experience reduced market share. Efforts to protect our intellectual property may be costly to resolve, require additional costly litigation and could divert management attention. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties' patents or other proprietary rights. If this occurs, we may not be able to prevent the use of such technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any patents owned by us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and any rights granted under any patent may not provide adequate protection to us. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient resources to protect our rights. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, or design around patents that may be issued to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may be more difficult to monitor the use of our products in such foreign countries. As a result of these threats to our proprietary technology, we may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, we on occasion receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or have other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets, even if the claims are without merit, could be very expensive to defend and could divert the attention of our management. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek costly licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing 15 and selling our products. Royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results in one or more countries. From time to time we may enhance, modify or upgrade our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications, which could cause unexpected problems to occur and could cause disruption to the management of our business. From time to time, we may enhance, modify or upgrade our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system used for our worldwide operations, as well as other key software applications used in our operations. Our ERP system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Enhancements may eventually become more costly, difficult and time-consuming to purchase and implement than we currently anticipate. We may encounter unexpected difficulties or costs or other challenges, any of which may disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. Our existing systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and require us to change our internal business practices. Corrections and improvements may be required as we enhance, modify or upgrade our systems, procedures and controls, and could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our operating results. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety regulations could result in substantial liability. We are subject to a variety of Federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations relating to environmental protection and workplace safety. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations, as well as governmental standards for workplace safety. If we fail to comply with present or future regulations, especially in our Fremont, California and Dornstadt, Germany manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liability for clean up efforts, personal injury, fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We may be subject to liability if our acquired companies have past violations. Restrictions on our ability to expand or continue to operate our present locations could be imposed upon us, we could be required to acquire costly remediation equipment or incur other significant expenses. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which may lead to losses by investors or to securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and our stock price may decline in the future. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2006, the price range for our common stock was $7.10 to $13.27 per share. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations have frequently been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in its stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. Any future business acquisitions may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or distract management attention. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to our own. Such acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: difficulty of assimilating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and possible impairments caused by this; potential disruption of our ongoing business; unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; inability of management to manage the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; 16 inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers that may occur as a result of integration of the acquired business. To the extent that shares of our stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and our earnings per share may suffer. Any future acquisitions may not generate additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 