ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN GENERAL You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision concerning our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually materializes, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward Looking Statements” under Item 7 of this report for a discussion of forward looking statements. 6 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE WHOLESALE BUSINESS • Regulation of Cigarette and Tobacco Products by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) May Negatively Impact Our Operations. In June 2009, legislation was signed into law which provided the FDA with broad new authority to regulate the manufacture, distribution, and sale of cigarette and tobacco products. While we believe most of the new regulatory burden will fall upon product manufacturers, the FDA may also impose new regulations on wholesale distributors. In one of its first major regulatory actions, the FDA banned the manufacture, shipment, and sale of certain flavored cigarettes effective September 22, 2009. If the FDA were to impose additional regulations and we could not comply with such regulations, we could face remedial actions such as fines, suspension of product distribution rights, and/or termination of operations. Further, if the FDA were to expand product bans our future revenue stream could materially decrease. If any of these items were to occur, our results from operations, cash flow, business, and overall financial condition could be negatively impacted. • Our Sales Volume Is Largely Dependent upon the Distribution of Cigarette Products, Which is a Declining Sales Category. The distribution of cigarettes represents a significant portion of our business. During fiscal 2009, approximately 71% of our consolidated revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes which generated approximately 27% of our consolidated gross profit. Due to manufacturer price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, regulation, higher excise taxes, health concerns, smoking bans, and other factors, the demand for cigarettes in the United States may continue to decline. If this occurs, our results from operations, cash flow, business, and overall financial condition could be negatively impacted. • Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Are Subject to Substantial Excise Taxes and If These Taxes Are Increased, Our Sales of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Could Decline. Cigarette and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been imposed by both individual states and the federal government. Most recently (April 2009), the federal excise taxes imposed on cigarette and tobacco products was increased dramatically. The new regulatory responsibilities of the FDA may be also be funded by further increases in federal excise taxes. Increases in excise taxes may reduce the long-term demand for cigarette and tobacco products and/or result in a sales shift from higher margin premium cigarette and tobacco products to lower margin deep-discount brands, while at the same time increasing the Company’s accounts receivable risk and inventory carrying costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results from operations, cash flow, liquidity position, and overall financial condition could be negatively impacted. • Divestiture and Consolidation Trends Within the Convenience Store Industry May Negatively Impact Our Operations. Continued divestitures and consolidations within the convenience store industry reflect a trend that may result in customer losses for us if the acquiring entity is served by another wholesale distributor or we are unable to retain the business. If we were to lose a substantial volume of business because of these trends, our results from operations, cash flow, business, and overall financial condition could be negatively impacted. • Higher Fuel Prices Could Reduce Profit Margins and Adversely Affect Our Business. Increases in fuel prices can and do have a negative impact on our profit margins. If fuel prices increase and we are not able to meaningfully pass on these costs to customers, it could adversely impact our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. • The Wholesale Distribution of Cigarettes and Convenience Store Products Is Significantly Affected by Cigarette Pricing Decisions and Promotional Programs Offered by Cigarette Manufacturers. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute including allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising incentives in connection with various incentive programs. In addition, we receive 7 Table of Contents discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could be negatively affected. • Competition Within The Wholesale Distribution Business May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The wholesale distribution industry is highly competitive. There are many distribution companies operating in the same geographical regions as ADC. ADC’s principal competitors are national and regional wholesalers, along with a host of smaller grocery and tobacco wholesalers. Most of these competitors generally offer a wide range of products at prices comparable to ADC’s. Some of our competitors have substantial financial resources and long-standing customer relationships. Heightened competition may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could suffer. • We Purchase Cigarettes from Manufacturers Covered by the Industry’s Master Settlement Agreement, Which Results in Competition from Lower Priced Sales of Cigarettes Produced by Manufacturers Who Do Not Participate in the Master Settlement Agreement. Increased selling prices and higher cigarette taxes have resulted in the growth of deep-discount cigarette brands. Deep-discount brands are brands generally manufactured by companies that are not original participants to the master settlement agreement, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with master settlement agreement related payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Since the master settlement agreement was signed in November 1998, the category of deep-discount brands manufactured by smaller manufacturers or supplied by importers has grown substantially. • If the Tobacco Industry’s Master Settlement Agreement Is Invalidated, or Tobacco Manufacturers Cannot Meet Their Obligations to Indemnify Us, We Could Be Subject to Substantial Litigation Liability. In connection with the master settlement agreement, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from the sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. However, if litigation challenging the validity of the master settlement agreement were to be successful and all or part of the master settlement agreement is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to the sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our results of operations, business, cash flow, and overall financial condition could be negatively impacted due to increased litigation costs and potential adverse rulings against us. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE RETAIL BUSINESS • Increases in Retail Health Food Store Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. In the retail health food business, our primary competitors currently include national natural foods supermarkets, such as Whole Foods Market, specialty supermarkets, regional natural foods stores, small specialty stores, and restaurants. In addition, conventional supermarkets and mass market outlets are increasing their emphasis on the sale of natural products. Some of these potential competitors may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting, and selling their products. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. • Part of Our Strategy Is to Expand Our Retail Health Food Business Through The Opening of New Stores, If We Are Unsuccessful it May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We also need to be able to open new stores timely and operate them successfully. In addition, our success is dependant on our ability to hire, train and integrate new qualified team members. Our success is also dependent on our ability to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to 8 Table of Contents adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. If we are not able to find and open new store locations and close poor performing stores, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and overall financial condition. • Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business. There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products including dietary supplements, fresh and processed foods and vitamins will be available to meet our future needs. If conventional supermarkets increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a materially adverse impact on our overall sales and product costs. • Perishable Food Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results. We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than conventional supermarket stores. The Company’s emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE OVERALL BUSINESS • A Further Deterioration in Economic Conditions May Negatively Impact Sales in Both Our Business Segments Our results of operations and financial condition are particularly sensitive to changes in the overall economy, including the level of consumer spending. Further changes in discretionary spending patterns may decrease demand from our convenience store customers and/or impact the demand for natural food products in our retail health food stores as customers purchase cheaper product alternatives. Additionally, many of our wholesale segment customers are thinly capitalized and their access to credit in the current business environment may be impacted by their ability to operate as a going concern, presenting additional credit risk for the Company. If the economic downturn persists or deteriorates further, it may result in lower sales and profitability as well as customer credit defaults. • Capital Needed for Expansion May Not Be Available. The acquisition of existing stores, the opening of new retail stores, and the development of new production and distribution facilities requires significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from bank debt, private placements of equity and debt and internally generated cash flow. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future, which could impair our ability to further expand our business. • Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility May Restrict Our Ability to React to Changes Within Our Business or Industry. Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to incur additional indebtedness, make distributions, pay dividends, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. • Failure to Meet Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility Could Result in Acceleration of the Facility and We May not be Able to Find Alternative Financing. Under our credit facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we breach, or if our lender contends that we have breached, any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would permit our lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our revolving credit facility. 9 Table of Contents • We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital or Borrow Funds to Provide Us with Sufficient Liquidity and Capital Resources Necessary to Meet Our Future Financial Obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, the current and future conditions in the credit markets may impact the availability of capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. • We Depend on Relatively Few Suppliers for a Large Portion of Our Products, and Any Interruptions in the Supply of the Products That We Sell Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we sell in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions beyond our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we sell as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. • We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us is alleged to cause injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we sell, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insurance limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty cannot fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to allegedly defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations, business, cash flow, and overall financial condition. • We Depend on Our Senior Management and Key Personnel. We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Christopher H. Atayan, AMCON’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Andrew C. Plummer, AMCON’s Chief Financial Officer and Vice President. While we maintain key person life insurance policies and have employment agreements with certain key personnel, the loss of service from any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. • We Operate in a Competitive Labor Market and a Number of Our Employees Are Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at September 2009 approximately 4% or approximately thirty employees were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization, which expires in December 2011. If we were not able to renew our future labor agreements on similar terms, we may be unable to recover labor cost increases through increased prices or may suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. 10 Table of Contents • We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation and If We Are Unable to Comply with Regulations That Affect Our Business or If There Are Substantial Changes in These Regulations, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. As a distributor and retailer of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), the Department of Transportation and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased audit and compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the impact that future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, the effect of additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. While we do not manufacture any products, any of the aforementioned items could disrupt the supply levels of inventory that we sell. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK • The Company Has Very Few Shareholders of Record And, If this Number Drops below 300, the Company Will No Longer Be Obligated to Report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and in Such Case We May Be Delisted from NYSE Amex Equities, Reducing the Ability of Investors to Trade in Our Common Stock. If the number of owners of record (including direct participants in the Depository Trust Company) of our common stock falls below 300, our obligations to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 could be suspended. If we take advantage of this right we will likely reduce administrative costs of complying with public company rules, but periodic and current information updates about the Company would not be available to investors. In addition, the common stock of the Company would be removed from listing on NYSE Amex Equities. This would likely impact investors’ ability to trade in our common stock. • We Have Various Mechanisms in Place to Discourage Takeover Attempts, Which May Reduce or Eliminate Our Stockholders’ Ability to Sell Their Shares for a Premium in a Change of Control Transaction. Various provisions of our bylaws and of corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and Board of Directors. These provisions include: • classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; • supermajority voting requirements to amend the provision in our certificate of incorporation providing for the classification of our directors into three such classes; • non-cumulative voting for directors; • control by our Board of Directors of the size of our Board of directors; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 