Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF STOCK The current severe slowing in the general economy and in the semiconductor industry have caused us recent losses and reductions in available cash, and may continue to negatively impact our financial performance The current recession in the global economy and the current downturn in the semiconductor industry have severely impacted and could further impact customer demand for our products and our financial performance. The degree of this impact will depend on a number of factors, including whether the U.S. economy and the global economy continue a prolonged recession. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. We may also experience supplier or customer issues as a result of current adverse macroeconomic conditions. If our customers have difficulties in obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could also result in an increase in bad debt expense. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts and result in delays of our customer shipments. These conditions make it difficult for us to accurately predict our business, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Because of the negative effects of the current recession, we may have to take further actions to reduce costs, which could reduce our ability to significantly invest in research and development at levels we believe are necessary. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we will experience additional losses and additional reductions in our cash and equivalents. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks in these deteriorating financial market conditions, which could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio.. If the need arose, it would not be easy for us to obtain short-term, longer-term or capital financing in these weak global credit markets. If we are not able to suitably adapt to these economic conditions in a timely manner, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical and periodically has severe and prolonged downturns, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity, including reduced capital expenditures, decreased demand for our products and increased price competition. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Such downturns may result from general economic changes, such as the current recession in the U.S. and global economies, or due to capacity growth temporarily exceeding growth in demand for semiconductor devices. Our business depends, in significant part, upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductor devices, including manufacturers that open new or expand existing facilities. Periods of overcapacity and reductions in capital expenditures by our customers cause decreases in demand for our products. This could result in significant under utilization in our factories. If existing fabrication facilities are not expanded and new facilities are not built, demand for our systems may not develop or increase, and we may be unable to generate significant new orders for our systems. If we are unable to develop new orders for our systems, we will not achieve anticipated net sales levels. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, our customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of ordered products and/or cancel orders, resulting in reduced revenues and backlog, delays in revenue recognition and excess inventory. Increased price competition may result, causing pressure on our gross margin and net income. We are dependent on our revenue levels and the success of our cost reduction measures to ensure adequate liquidity during this recession. We require a significant amount of cash resources to operate our business. Our liquidity is affected by many factors including, among others, the fluctuations in revenue, gross profits and operating expenses of our business as a result of the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry exacerbated by the global economic crisis, and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry makes it difficult for us to predict our future liquidity needs with certainty. Any upturn in the semiconductor industry would result in short term uses of our cash to fund working capital requirements for inventory purchases and accounts receivable. Alternatively, any further softening in the demand for our products may cause us to incur additional losses in the future. We cannot predict whether any of the cost reduction measures that we have or expect to undertake to conserve our cash resources will be successful. In the future, we may need additional funds to support our working capital requirements, operating expenses or for other requirements. We may seek to raise these funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or through the sale of assets. These financing options may not be available to us on a timely basis, if at all, or, if available on terms acceptable to us or not dilutive to our shareholders. If we are unsuccessful in our attempts to obtain additional financing, we may be required to reduce planned expenditures or investments, which may adversely affect our business, reduce revenues or increase our losses. We are dependent on a highly concentrated customer base, particularly with customers in the memory market, and any cancellation, reduction or delay of purchases by or failure to collect receivables from these customers could harm our business. Additionally, we may not achieve anticipated revenue levels if we are not selected as "vendor of choice" for new or expanded fabrication facilities. 12 Currently, we derive most of our revenues from the sale of systems to a relatively small number of customers, which makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor fabrication facility, these manufacturers will tend to choose semiconductor equipment manufacturers based on established relationships, product compatibility and proven financial performance. Once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular vendor's capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon equipment from this "vendor of choice" (VOC) for the specific production line application. In addition, the semiconductor manufacturer frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendors. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the VOC by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor's product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our systems and technology. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our systems and technology, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. The current list prices on our systems range from $0.7 million to more than $4.0 million. Consequently, any order cancellations, delays in scheduled shipments, delays in customer acceptances or delays in collection of accounts receivable could materially adversely affect our operating results and cause our results to fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts or investors. The current economic and industry downturn could and has already caused at least one of our customers to file for bankruptcy protection. Because bankruptcy courts have the power to cancel or change the terms of the contracts of companies seeking bankruptcy protection, bankruptcies among our customer base may potentially result in the receivables owed to us by such customers becoming uncollectable in the near-term and perhaps indefinitely. Our list of major customers changes substantially from year to year, and we cannot predict whether a major customer in one year will make significant purchases from us in future years. Additionally, our customers' capital budget considerations and our lengthy sales cycle make the timing of customer orders uneven and difficult to predict. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results from year to year. Although we maintain a backlog of customer orders with expected shipment dates within the next 12 months, customers may request cancellations or delivery delays. As a result, our backlog may not be a reliable indication of future revenues. If shipments of orders in backlog are cancelled or delayed, revenues could fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts and investors. Additionally, a large percentage of our sales are concentrated to customers in the memory market, so a downturn in memory spending could impact us more than it would impact competitors who are stronger in the logic and foundry markets. Sales to customers in the memory market accounted for 64 percent of our net sales in 2008. We may not be able to continue to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment industry. The semiconductor equipment industry is both highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors include the following: system performance; cost of ownership; size of the installed base; breadth of product line; delivery speed; and customer support. 13 Competitive pressure has been increasing in several areas. In particular, there is increased price competition, and customers are waiting to make purchase commitments based on their end-user demand, which are then placed with requests for rapid delivery dates and increased product support. Some of our major competitors are larger than we are, have greater capital resources and may have a competitive advantage over us by virtue of having: broader product lines; longer operating history; greater experience with high-volume manufacturing; substantially larger customer bases; the ability to reduce price through product bundling; and substantially greater customer support, financial, technical and marketing resources. Our more limited product line also creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. Growth in the semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly concentrated in the largest companies, resulting in increasing industry consolidation. Semiconductor companies are consolidating their vendor base and prefer to purchase from vendors with a strong, worldwide support infrastructure. In addition, to expand our sales we must often displace the systems of our competitors or sell new systems to customers of our competitors. Our competitors may develop new or enhanced competitive products that will offer price or performance features that are superior to our systems. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and on-site customer support of their product lines. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. Significant fluctuations in our operating results are difficult to predict due to our lengthy sales cycle, and our results may fall short of anticipated levels, which could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of our systems depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase or replace manufacturing capacity, typically involving a significant capital commitment. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our systems requires time-consuming internal procedures associated with the evaluation, testing, implementation and introduction of new technologies into our customers' manufacturing facilities. Even after the customer determines that our systems meet their qualification criteria, we may experience delays finalizing system sales while the customer obtains approval for the purchase, constructs new facilities or expands its existing facilities. Consequently, the time between our first contact with a customer regarding a specific potential purchase and the customer's placing its first order may last from nine to twelve months or longer. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses during this evaluation period. In addition, the length of this period makes it difficult to accurately forecast future sales. If sales forecasted from a specific customer are not realized, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues, and our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We incurred net losses of approximately $336.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, $69.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Although we were profitable for each of the years 2004 to 2007, we incurred net losses of $92.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, of which $60.5 million was incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 due to declining demand as a result of the weakness in the semiconductor equipment market and the global economic crisis. We may not achieve profitability in this or future years. We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitability, and we may not be able to do so. A substantial percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and we may continue to be unable to adjust spending to 14 compensate for shortfalls in revenues. As a result, we may continue to incur losses, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further or remain at a low level for an extended period of time. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which may lead to losses by investors or to securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and our stock price may decline in the future. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, the price range for our common stock was $1.01 to $8.39 per share. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations have frequently been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in its stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. Our stock price has been below book value for an extended period of time during the year ended December 31, 2008. This could potentially make us a target for acquisition. This could result in litigations against the company, and could result in substantial costs and potential disruption of our business. We must continually anticipate technology trends, improve our existing products and develop new products in order to be competitive. The development of new or enhanced products involves significant risk and cost and delays. Technical and manufacturing difficulties incurred in the introduction of new products could be costly and adversely affect our customer relationships. The markets in which our customers and we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. Consequently, our success depends upon our ability to anticipate future technology trends and customer needs, to develop new systems and processes that meet customer requirements and industry standards and that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance. Our development of new products involves significant risk, since the products are very complex and the development cycle is long and expensive. The success of any new systems we develop and introduce is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to correctly predict customer requirements for new processes, to assess and select the potential technologies for research and development and to timely complete new system designs that are acceptable to the market. We may make substantial investments in new technologies before we can know whether they are technically or commercially feasible or advantageous, and without any assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the associated development costs. Not all development activities result in commercially viable products. We may not be able to improve our existing systems or develop new technologies or systems in a timely manner. We may exceed the budgeted cost of reaching our research, development and engineering objectives, and planned product development schedules may require extension. Any delays or additional development costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products are complex, and we may experience technical or manufacturing inefficiencies, delays or difficulties in the prototype introduction of new systems and enhancements, or in achieving volume production of new systems or enhancements that meet customer requirements. Our inability or the inability of our outsourced partners to overcome such difficulties, to meet the technical specifications of any new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume and in a timely manner would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as our customer relationships. We may from time to time incur unanticipated costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our products early in their life cycles, and such costs can be substantial. If we encounter reliability or quality problems with our new products or enhancements, we could face a number of difficulties, including reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collection of accounts receivable and additional service and warranty expenses, all of which could 15 materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cost associated with our warranty is significant, and in the event our projections and estimates of this cost are inaccurate, our financial performance could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we experience product failures at an unexpectedly high level, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, and our business would suffer. We are subject to significant risks related to our manufacturing operations. Our gross margins for sales of products that we manufacture in Germany and our operating expenses in Germany may fluctuate due to changes in the value of the Euro. We develop and manufacture a significant portion of our products in Germany, where our costs for labor and materials are primarily established in Euros. Future increases in the strength of the Euro, if any, could increase our development costs, our costs to manufacture systems in Germany and our costs to purchase spare parts for products from our suppliers, which would make it more difficult to for us to compete and could adversely affect our results of operations. We are increasingly outsourcing manufacturing and logistics activities to third-party service providers, which decrease our control over the performance of these functions and quality of our products. We have outsourced certain manufacturing and spare parts logistics functions to third-party service providers, and may outsource more of those functions in the future. While we expect to achieve operational flexibility and cost savings as a result of this, outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products or spare parts to our customers could be severely impaired. We would quickly need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity, which could be expensive and time-consuming, and could result in unforeseen operational problems and late deliveries to our customers. Substitute service providers might not be available, or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Under certain of our agreements with third-party outsourced providers, we are required to purchase certain minimum levels of production from such providers and may be liable to purchase inventory of assemblies and modules that exceed customer demand for such products. Conversely, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our requirements are expected to represent a small portion of the total capacities of our third-party service providers, and they may preferentially allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. In addition, such manufacturers could suffer financial difficulties or disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our control. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for some components and subassemblies, and supply shortages or the loss of these suppliers could result in increased cost or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely, to a substantial extent, on outside vendors to provide many of the components and subassemblies of our systems. We obtain some of these components and subassemblies from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. We generally acquire these components on a purchase order basis and not under long-term supply contracts. Because of our anticipated reliance on outside vendors generally, and on a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components. Although we currently experience minimal delays in receiving goods from our suppliers, when demand for semiconductor equipment is strong, our suppliers may have difficulty providing components on a timely basis. 16 In addition, during periods of shortages of components, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components. We often quote prices to our customers and accept customer orders for our products prior to purchasing components and subassemblies from our suppliers. If our suppliers increase the cost of components or subassemblies, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may no longer be able to increase the cost of the system being evaluated by our customers to cover all or part of the increased cost of components. The manufacture of some of these components is an extremely complex process and requires long lead times. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required components, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. This could delay our ability to manufacture or timely ship our systems, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and harm our reputation. During the current economic recession, it is likely that some of our suppliers may experience financial difficulties and we may be required to find alternative sources of supply. Historically, we have not experienced any significant delays in manufacturing due to an inability to obtain components, and we are not currently aware of any specific problems regarding the availability of components that might significantly delay the manufacturing of our systems in the future. However, any inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally, could delay our ability to ship our systems and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory. We need to manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process and finished goods effectively to meet customer delivery demands at an acceptable risk and cost. Customers are increasingly requiring very short lead times for delivery, which may require us to purchase and carry additional inventory. For both the inventories that support manufacture of our products and our spare parts inventories, if the anticipated customer demand does not materialize in a timely manner, we will incur increased carrying costs and some inventory could become excess or obsolete, resulting in write-offs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We recorded inventory valuation charges for excess and obsolete inventory of $7.1 million in 2008, $0.3 million in 2007 and $1.7 million in 2006, mainly as a result of declining demand for our products. We manufacture many of our products at two primary manufacturing facilities and are thus subject to risk of disruption. Although we outsource the manufacturing for certain of our products to third parties, we continue to produce our latest generation products at our two principal manufacturing plants in Fremont, California and Dornstadt, Germany. We have limited ability to interchangeably produce our products at either facility, and in the event of a disruption of operations at one facility, our other facility would not be able to make up the capacity loss. Our operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and seriously harm our business. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results. We are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 17 We are highly dependent on international sales, and face significant international business risks. International sales accounted for 91 percent of our net sales in 2008, 92 percent of our net sales in 2007 and 89 percent of our net sales in 2006. We anticipate international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our future net sales. Asia has been a particularly important region for our business, and we anticipate that it will continue to be important going forward. Our sales to customers located in China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and other Asian countries accounted for 81 percent of our net sales in 2008, 79 percent of our net sales in 2007 and 82 percent of our net sales in 2006. Because of our continuing dependence upon international sales, we are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities, including: more burdensome governmental controls, tariffs, taxes, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; unexpected changes in law or regulations prompted by the current economic downturn, such as protectionism and other attempts to rectify real or perceived international trade imbalances; exchange rate volatility; the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. export laws; political and economic instability; government sponsored competition; differing labor regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property; difficulties in accounts receivable collections; increased costs for product shipments and potential difficulties from shipment delays; difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. As the business volume between China and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between China, Taiwan, Japan, and the United States, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with China and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire Asian region. A significant trade disruption in these areas could have a material, adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. In the U.S. and Asia, our sales to date have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Our sales to date in Europe have been denominated in various currencies, primarily U.S. dollars and the Euro. Our sales in foreign currencies are subject to risks of currency fluctuation. For U.S. dollar sales in foreign countries, our products may become less price-competitive when the local currency is declining in value compared to the dollar. This could cause us to lose sales or force us to lower our prices, which would reduce our gross margins. We are exposed to various risks regarding to the regulatory environment. We are subject to export control laws and noncompliance could result in fines, adverse publicity, and restrictions on our ability to export our products. We are exposed to several material contracts, non-performance of which could result in liquidated damages. We are subject to various risks related to (1) disagreements and disputes between national and regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; (2) new, inconsistent and conflicting rules by regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate; and (3) interpretation and application of different laws and regulations. If we are found by a court or regulatory agency to not be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S. these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"), the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS"), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). These laws govern products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called "dual use" items. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements related to documentation, record keeping, plant visits and hiring of foreign nationals. We have recently self-disclosed to BIS certain inadvertent EAR violations. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. We are a party to several governmental and private-party contracts that provide for liquidated damages in the event that we fail to comply with the covenants or requirements under any of these contracts. These liquidated damage payments could be significant and we could incur significant legal fees if we were to renegotiate these contracts. Any such damages amounts or legal expenses may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Because of competition for qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our products. Our growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. During periods of growth in the semiconductor industry, there is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. In particular, we must attract and retain highly skilled design and process engineers. If we are unable to retain existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may from time to time experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers. As a result, our growth could be limited, we could fail to meet our delivery commitments or we could experience deterioration in service levels or decreases in customer satisfaction. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable asset and experience reduced market share. Efforts to protect our intellectual property may be costly to resolve, require additional costly litigation and could divert management attention. Our obligation to indemnify customers increases during a downturn. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties' patents or other proprietary rights. If this occurs, we may not be able to prevent the use of such technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any patents owned by us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and any rights granted under any patent may not provide adequate protection to us. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient resources to protect our rights. As we outsource more of our activities, we are less able to protect our intellectual property ourselves, and rely more on our service providers to do so. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, or design around patents that may be issued to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may be more difficult to monitor the use of our products in such foreign countries. As a result of these threats to our proprietary technology, we may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, we on occasion receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or have other financial obligations to them because of claims of intellectual property infringement made against them by third parties. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets, even if the claims are without merit, could be very expensive to defend and could divert the attention of our management. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require 19 us to seek costly licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results in one or more countries. Our commercial relationships with customers become more risky when market conditions give each customer greater leverage in negotiating with us. In the normal course of business, we indemnify customers with respect to certain matters, for example if our tool infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party or if we breach any promise in our contract with the customer. During downturns in general or industry-specific economic conditions, our customers may require that the extent and scope of our obligation to indemnify them be expanded. In the future, we may be compelled to enter into or accrue for settlements under such indemnification provisions. We may be compelled in the future to enter into or accrue for settlements of alleged indemnification obligations. Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims. From time to time we may enhance, modify or upgrade our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications, which could cause unexpected problems to occur and could cause disruption to the management of our business. From time to time, we may enhance, modify or upgrade our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system used for our worldwide operations, as well as other key software applications used in our operations. Our ERP system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Enhancements may eventually become more costly, difficult and time-consuming to purchase and implement than we currently anticipate. We may encounter unexpected difficulties or costs or other challenges, any of which may disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. Our existing systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and require us to change our internal business practices. Corrections and improvements may be required as we enhance, modify or upgrade our systems, procedures and controls, and could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our operating results. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety regulations could result in substantial liability. We are subject to a variety of Federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations relating to environmental protection and workplace safety. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations, as well as governmental standards for workplace safety. If we fail to comply with present or future regulations, especially in our Fremont, California, Dornstadt, Germany and Vancouver, Canada manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liability for clean up efforts, personal injury, fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We may be subject to liability if our acquired companies have past violations. Restrictions on our ability to expand or continue to operate our present locations could be imposed upon us, we could be required to acquire costly remediation equipment or incur other significant expenses. Any future business acquisitions may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or distract management attention. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to our own. Such acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: difficulty of assimilating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and possible impairments caused by this; potential disruption of our ongoing business; 20 unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; inability of management to manage the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers that may occur as a result of integration of the acquired business. To the extent that shares of our stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and our earnings per share may suffer. Any future acquisitions may not generate additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 