Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in the future periods. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See also "Forward-Looking Statements" elsewhere in this report. RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND MARKET PRICE OF STOCK We are dependent on our revenue and the success of our cost reduction measures to ensure adequate liquidity and capital resources during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $554.6 million. We have incurred operating losses and generated negative cash flows for each of the last three years. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash of $23.0 million and working capital of $51.1 million. Our operations require careful management of our cash and working capital balances. Our liquidity is affected by many factors including, among others, fluctuations in our revenue, gross profits and operating expenses, as well as changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry makes it difficult for us to predict our future liquidity needs with certainty. Any upturn in the semiconductor industry would result in short-term uses of our cash to fund inventory purchases and accounts receivable. Alternatively, any renewed softening in the demand for our products or ineffectiveness of our cost reduction efforts may cause us to incur additional losses in the future and lower our cash balances. We may need additional funds to support our working capital requirements, operating expenses or for other requirements. Historically, we have relied on a combination of fundraising from the sale and issuance of equity securities and cash generated from product, service and royalty revenues to provide funding for our operations. We will continue to review our expected cash requirements, make all efforts to collect any aged receivables, and take appropriate cost reduction measures to ensure that we have sufficient liquidity. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we may seek to raise these funds externally through public or private debt or equity financing, or through the sale of assets. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, including among others, market conditions, the general availability of credit to the financial services industry and our credit ratings. As a consequence, these financing options may not be available to us on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us, and could be dilutive to our shareholders. Our current liquidity position may result in risks and uncertainties affecting our operations and financial position, including the following: we may be required to reduce planned expenditures or investments; 10 we may be unable to compete in our newer or developing markets; we may not be able to obtain and maintain normal terms with suppliers; suppliers may require standby letters of credit before delivering goods and services, which will result in additional demands on our cash; customers may delay or discontinue entering into contracts with us; and our ability to retain management and other key individuals may be negatively affected. Failure to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, raise additional capital or reduce spending could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our intended long-term business objectives. We are dependent on a highly concentrated customer base, and any cancellation, reduction or delay of purchases by these customers could harm our business. Additionally, we may not achieve anticipated revenue levels if we are not selected as "vendor of choice" for new or expanded customer fabrication facilities. Currently, we derive most of our revenues from the sale of systems to a relatively small number of customers, which makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. For example, in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our three largest customers accounted for 59 percent, 55 percent and 39 percent of our revenues, respectively. We currently depend on one customer for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from this customer would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor fabrication facility, these manufacturers will tend to choose semiconductor equipment manufacturers based on established relationships, product compatibility and proven performance. Customer order cancellations could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from customers could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate. If customer relationships are disrupted for inability to deliver sufficient products or for any other reason, it could have a significant negative impact on our business. A large percentage of our sales are concentrated among customers in the memory market, representing 60 percent and 54 percent of systems sales in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result, a downturn or an upturn in memory spending could impact us more than it would impact competitors who are more diversified with logic and foundry customers. Once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular vendor's capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon equipment from this "vendor of choice" ("VOC") for the specific production line application. In addition, the semiconductor manufacturer frequently will attempt to consolidate other capital equipment requirements with the same vendors. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the VOC by significant new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor's product. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our systems and technology, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Although we maintain a backlog of customer orders with expected shipment dates within the next 12 months, customers may request cancellations or delivery delays. Customers in some regions place orders a few weeks before the shipment. As a result, our backlog may not be a reliable indication of future revenues. If shipments of orders in backlog are cancelled or delayed, revenues could fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts and investors. We may not be able to continue to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor equipment industry. The semiconductor equipment industry is both highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors include the following: system performance; 11 cost of ownership; size of the installed base; breadth of product line; delivery speed; and customer support. Competitive pressure has been increasing in several areas. In addition to increased price competition, customers are waiting to make purchase commitments based on their end-user demand, which are then placed with requests for rapid delivery dates and increased product support. Some of our major competitors are larger than we are, have greater capital resources and may have a competitive advantage over us by virtue of having: broader product lines; longer operating history; greater experience with high-volume manufacturing; substantially larger customer bases; the ability to reduce price through product bundling; and substantially greater customer support, financial, technical and marketing resources. Growth in the semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly concentrated in the largest companies, resulting in increasing industry consolidation. Semiconductor companies are consolidating their vendor base and prefer to purchase from vendors with a strong, worldwide support infrastructure. In addition, to expand our sales we must often displace the systems of our competitors or sell new systems to customers of our competitors. Our competitors may develop new or enhanced competitive products that offer price or performance features that are superior to our systems. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and on-site customer support of their product lines. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has caused us to experience losses and reduced liquidity, and it may continue to negatively impact our financial performance. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical and periodically has severe and prolonged downturns, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity, including decreased demand for our products and increased price competition. The semiconductor industry has historically experienced periodic downturns due to general economic changes or due to capacity growth temporarily exceeding growth in demand for semiconductor devices. Our business depends, in significant part, upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductor devices, including manufacturers that open new or expand existing facilities. Periods of overcapacity and reductions in capital expenditures by our customers cause decreases in demand for our products. This could result in significant under utilization in our factories. If existing customer fabrication facilities are not expanded and new facilities are not built, we may be unable to generate significant new orders and sales for our systems. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, our customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of ordered products and/or cancel orders, resulting in reduced revenues and backlog, delays in revenue recognition and excess inventory for us. In our most recent quarter ended December 31, 2010, we experienced order delays among our DRAM customers, which we cannot be certain are all short term in nature. Increased price competition may also result as we compete for the smaller demand in the market, causing pressure on our gross margin and net income. The weakness in the global economy during 2008 and 2009 and the relatively modest recovery exhibited during 2010 may continue to negatively impact our financial performance. The recessionary conditions of 2008 and 2009 in the global economy and the slowdown in the semiconductor 12 industry impacted customer demand for our products and correspondingly, negatively impacted our financial performance. While the global economy has seen a modest recovery during 2010, there remains high unemployment in developed countries, concerns regarding the availability of credit and uncertainty about a sustained economic recovery. We cannot ensure that any of the economic improvements during 2010 will be sustainable or sufficient to extend to our specific operations or markets. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends on consumer spending. Continued economic uncertainty may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain of our customers to cancel or delay orders. In addition, if our customers have difficulties in obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could lead to charges to our bad debt expense if we are unable to collect accounts receivables. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts to us, and result in delays of the completion of our systems and the shipment of these systems to our customers. Because of the economic downturn and the uncertainty of a full recovery, we may have to take further actions to reduce costs, which could reduce our ability to invest in research and development at levels we believe are desirable. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we will experience additional losses and additional reductions in our cash and cash equivalents. If we are not able to suitably adapt to these economic conditions in a timely manner or at all, our performance, cash flows, results of operations and ability to access capital could be materially and adversely impacted. We must continually anticipate technology trends, improve our existing products and develop new products in order to be competitive. The development of new or enhanced products involves significant risks, additional costs and delays in revenue recognition. Technical and manufacturing difficulties experienced in the introduction of new products could be costly and could adversely affect our customer relationships. The markets in which our customers and we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. Consequently, our success depends upon our ability to anticipate future technology trends and customer needs, to develop new systems and processes that meet industry standards and customer requirements and that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance. Our development of new products involves significant risk, since the products are very complex and the development cycle is long and expensive. The success of any new system we develop and introduce is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to correctly predict customer requirements for new processes, to assess and select the potential technologies for research and development and to timely complete new system designs that are acceptable to the market. We may make substantial investments in new technologies before we can know whether they are technically or commercially feasible or advantageous, and without any assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the associated development costs. Not all development activities result in commercially viable products. We may not be able to improve our existing systems or develop new technologies or systems in a timely manner. We may exceed the budgeted cost of reaching our research, development and engineering objectives, and planned product development schedules may require extension. Any delays or additional development costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products are complex, and we may experience technical or manufacturing inefficiencies, delays or difficulties in the prototype introduction of new systems and enhancements, or in achieving volume production of new systems or enhancements that meet customer requirements. Our inability, or the inability of our outsourced partners, to overcome such difficulties, to meet the technical specifications of any new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume and in a timely manner would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as our customer relationships. Our revenue recognition policies require that during the initial evaluation phase of a new product, customer acceptance needs to be obtained before we can recognize revenue on the product. Customer acceptances may not be completed in a timely manner for a variety of reasons, whether or not related to the quality and performance of our products. Any delays in customer acceptance may result in revenue recognition delays and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may from time to time incur unanticipated costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our products early in their life cycles, and such costs can be substantial. If we encounter reliability or quality problems with our new 13 products or enhancements, we could face a number of difficulties, including reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collection of accounts receivable and additional service and warranty expenses, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The costs associated with our warranties may be significant, and in the event our projections and estimates of these costs are inaccurate, our financial performance could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we experience product failures at an unexpectedly high level, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, and our business would suffer. Significant fluctuations in our operating results are difficult to predict due to our lengthy sales cycle, and our results may fall short of anticipated levels, which could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of our systems depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase or replace manufacturing capacity, typically involving a significant capital commitment. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our systems requires time-consuming internal procedures associated with the evaluation, testing, implementation and introduction of new technologies into our customers' manufacturing facilities. Even after the customer determines that our systems meet their qualification criteria, we may experience delays finalizing system sales while the customer obtains approval for the purchase, constructs new facilities or expands its existing facilities. Consequently, the time between our first contact with a customer regarding a specific potential purchase and the customer's placing its first order may last from nine to twelve months or longer. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses during this evaluation period. In addition, the length of this period makes it difficult to accurately forecast future sales. Also, any unexpected delays in our orders, could impact our revenue and operating results. If sales forecasted from a specific customer are not realized, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues, and our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We incurred significant net losses between 2001 and 2003, yet were profitable for each of the years 2004 to 2007. Again, we incurred net losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, of $92.2 million, $67.0 million and $33.4 million, respectively, due to declining demand as a result of the weakness in the semiconductor equipment market and the global economic crisis. We may not achieve profitability in future years. We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitability, and we may not be able to do so. A substantial percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and we may continue to be unable to adjust spending to compensate for shortfalls in revenues. As a result, we may continue to incur losses, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further or remain at a low level for an extended period of time. We are highly dependent on international sales, and face significant international business risks. International sales accounted for 95 percent, 92 percent and 91 percent of our net sales in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate international sales will continue to account for the vast majority of our future net sales. Asia has been a particularly important region for our business, and we anticipate that it will continue to be important going forward. Our sales to customers located in China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and other Asian countries accounted for 90 percent, 82 percent, and 81 percent of our net sales in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Because of our continuing dependence upon international sales, we are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities, including: burdensome governmental controls, tariffs, taxes, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; unexpected changes in law or regulations prompted by economic stress, such as protectionism, and other attempts to rectify real or perceived international trade imbalances: exchange rate volatility; the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. customs and export laws; political and economic instability; government-sponsored competition; differing labor regulations; reduced protection for, and increased misappropriation of, intellectual property; 14 difficulties in accounts receivable collections; increased costs for product shipments and potential difficulties from shipment delays; difficulties in managing distributors or representatives; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations. Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. As the business volume between China and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and the United States, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with China and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire Asian region. A significant trade disruption in these areas could have a material adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. In addition, we are subject to a number of risks specific to doing business and selling our products in South Korea, including among other things, substantial competition from local sources, our ability to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits to continue to sell or continue operations in the country and political instability due to tension and any conflict among North Korea, South Korea and the United States. In the event that we become subject to any of these risks, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the U.S. and Asia, our sales to date have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars; however future sales to Asian customers may be denominated in the customer's local currency. Our sales to date in Europe have been denominated in various currencies, primarily U.S. dollars and the Euro. Our sales in foreign currencies are subject to risks of currency fluctuation. For U.S. dollar sales in foreign countries, our products may become less price competitive when the local currency is declining in value compared to the dollar. This could cause us to lose sales or force us to lower our prices, which would reduce our gross margins. Because of competition for qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our products. Our growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. Our ability to attract employees may be harmed by our recent financial losses, which has impacted our available cash and our ability to provide performance-based annual cash incentives. Also, part of our total compensation program includes share-based compensation. Share-based compensation is an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If the market price of our common shares declines or remains low, it may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain employees. During periods of growth in the semiconductor industry, there is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. In particular, we must attract and retain highly skilled design and process engineers. If we are unable to retain existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may from time to time experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers. As a result, our growth could be limited, we could fail to meet our delivery commitments or we could experience deterioration in service levels or decreases in customer satisfaction. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which may lead to losses by investors, securities litigation, or hostile or otherwise unfavorable takeover offers. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and our stock price may decline in the future. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the price range for our common stock was $2.01 to $5.52 per share. The relatively low stock price makes us attractive to hedge funds and other short-term investors. This could result in substantial volatility of the stock price and cause fluctuations in trading volumes for our stock. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations have frequently been unrelated to the operating performance of the 15 affected companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in its stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. Our stock price has been below the five-year peak of $13.50 for several years, and if revenue does not return to the peak 2007 levels or we do not return to profitability in the near term, we could be an attractive target for acquisition or be impacted by mergers or acquisition by another company or consolidation in the industry. An acquisition or merger could be hostile or on terms unfavorable to us, and may result in substantial costs and potential disruption to our business. We are subject to significant risks related to our manufacturing operations. We are increasingly outsourcing manufacturing and logistics activities to third-party service providers, which decrease our control over the performance of these functions and quality of our products. We have outsourced core product manufacturing and spare parts logistics functions to third-party service providers, and may outsource more of those functions in the future. While we expect to achieve operational flexibility and cost savings as a result of this, outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. We may continue to outsource more of our products, and there could be a risk of additional production delays during the transition period as we move such production to our service providers, which could result in delayed revenue recognition. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products or spare parts to our customers could be severely impaired. Where we have not qualified a second vendor to manufacture a certain product, we would quickly need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity, which could be expensive and time-consuming, and could result in unforeseen operational problems and late deliveries to our customers. Substitute service providers might not be available, or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Under certain of our agreements with third-party outsourced providers, we are required to purchase minimum levels of production from such providers and may be liable to purchase inventory of assemblies and modules that exceed customer demand for such products. Conversely, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our requirements are expected to represent a small portion of the total capacities of our third-party service providers, and they may preferentially allocate capacity to other customers, or face part shortages even during periods of high demand for our products. In addition, such manufacturers could suffer financial difficulties or disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our control. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for some components and subassemblies, and supply shortages or the loss of these suppliers could result in increased cost or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely, to a substantial extent, on outside vendors to provide many of the components and subassemblies of our systems. We obtain some of these components and subassemblies from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. We generally acquire these components on a purchase order basis and not under long-term supply contracts. Because of our anticipated reliance on outside vendors generally, and on a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components. When demand for semiconductor equipment is strong, our suppliers may have difficulty providing components on a timely basis. In addition, during periods of shortages of components, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components. We often quote prices to our customers and accept customer orders for our products prior to purchasing components and subassemblies from our suppliers. If our suppliers increase the cost of components or subassemblies, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may no longer be able to increase the cost of the 16 system being evaluated by our customers to cover all or part of the increased cost of components. The manufacture of some of these components is an extremely complex process and requires long lead times. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required components, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. This could delay our ability to manufacture or ship our systems in a timely manner, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and harm our reputation. Historically, we have not experienced any significant delays in manufacturing due to an inability to obtain components, and we are not currently aware of any specific problems regarding the availability of components that might significantly delay the manufacturing of our systems in the future. However, any inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally, could delay our ability to ship our systems and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our gross margins may be impacted if we do not effectively manage our inventory and associated inventory reserves. We need to manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process and finished goods effectively to meet customer delivery demands at an acceptable risk and cost. For both the inventories that support manufacture of our products and our spare parts inventories, if the anticipated customer demand does not materialize in a timely manner, we will incur increased carrying costs and some inventory could become excess or obsolete, resulting in write-offs, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. In the past, we have recorded inventory valuation charges for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.8 million in 2010, $14.2 million in 2009, and $7.1 million in 2008. We currently maintain inventory reserves at 40 percent of the gross inventory balances. The sale of this inventory during periods of increasing revenue could cause a release of these inventory reserves, which could temporarily impact our gross margin favorably and result in future unpredictability in our gross margin estimates. Our gross margins for sales of products that we manufacture in Germany and/or South Korea may fluctuate due to changes in the value of the Euro and South Korean won. We develop and manufacture a significant portion of our products in Germany where our costs for labor and materials are primarily denominated in Euros, and anticipate increased manufacturing activities in South Korea in 2011 where our costs for labor are primarily denominated in won. Future increases in the strength of the Euro or won, if any, could increase our development costs, our costs to manufacture systems, and our costs to purchase spare parts for products from our suppliers, which would make it more difficult to for us to compete and could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture many of our products at two primary manufacturing facilities and are thus subject to risk of disruption. Although we outsource the manufacturing for certain of our products to third parties, we continue to produce our latest generation products at our two principal manufacturing plants in Fremont, California and Dornstadt, Germany. We have limited ability to interchangeably produce our products at either facility, and in the event of a disruption of operations at one facility, our other facility would not be able to make up the capacity loss. Our operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, including earthquakes in California, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and seriously harm our business. We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial losses. We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our principal manufacturing operations in Fremont, California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and development efforts on new products, a significant portion of which is conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. If a major earthquake occurs, we could suffer a major 17 financial loss and face significant disruption in our business. We are exposed to various risks relating to compliance with the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate. We are subject to export control laws and noncompliance could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products. We are exposed to several material contracts, non-performance of which could result in liquidated damages. We are subject to various risks related to (1) disagreements and disputes between national and regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; (2) new, inconsistent and conflicting rules by regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate; and (3) interpretation and application of different laws and regulations. If we are found by a court or regulatory agency to not be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S. these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"), the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS"), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). These laws govern products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called "dual use" items. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements related to documentation, record keeping, plant visits and hiring of foreign nationals. For example, in 2008 we self-disclosed to BIS certain inadvertent EAR violations. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. We are a party to several governmental and private-party contracts that provide for liquidated damages in the event that we fail to comply with the covenants or requirements under any of these contracts. These liquidated damage payments could be significant and we could incur significant legal fees if we were to renegotiate these contracts. Any such damage amounts or legal expenses may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets and experience reduced market share. Efforts to protect our intellectual property may be costly to resolve, require additional costly litigation and could divert management attention. Our obligation to indemnify customers increases during a downturn. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non- disclosure agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties' patents or other proprietary rights. If this occurs, we may not be able to prevent the use of such technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any patents owned by us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and any rights granted under any patent may not provide adequate protection to us. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient resources to protect our rights. As we outsource more of our activities, we are less able to protect our intellectual property ourselves, and rely more on our service providers to do so. Our service providers may not always be able to assure that their employees or former employees do not use our intellectual property for their own account to compete with us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, or design around patents that may be issued to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may be more difficult to monitor the use of our products in such foreign countries. As a result of these threats to our proprietary technology, we may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. On occasion we receive notification from customers who believe that we are required to indemnify them or we have other financial obligations to them because of claims of intellectual property infringement made against them by third parties. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets, even if the claims are without merit, could be very expensive to defend and could divert the attention of our management. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require 18 us to seek costly licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results in one or more countries. Our commercial relationships with customers become more risky when market conditions give each customer greater leverage in negotiating with us. In the normal course of business, we indemnify customers with respect to certain matters, for example if our tool infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party or if we breach any promise in our contract with the customer. During downturns in general or industry specific economic conditions, our customers may require that the extent and scope of our obligation to indemnify them be expanded. In the future, we may be compelled to enter into or accrue for settlements under such indemnification provisions. We may be compelled in the future to enter into or accrue for settlements of alleged indemnification obligations. Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety regulations could result in substantial liability. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations relating to environmental protection and workplace safety. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations, as well as governmental standards for workplace safety. If we fail to comply with present or future regulations, especially in our manufacturing facilities in the United States, Germany, Canada and South Korea, we could be subject to substantial liability for cleanup efforts, personal injury, fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We may be subject to liability if our acquired companies have past violations. Restrictions on our ability to expand or continue to operate our present locations could be imposed upon us, we could be required to acquire costly remediation equipment or incur other significant expenses. Any future business acquisitions or divestitures may disrupt our business, diminish stockholder value or distract management attention. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to our own. Such acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: difficulty of assimilating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and possible impairments caused by this; potential disruption of our ongoing business; unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; inability of management to manage the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers that may occur as a result of integration of the acquired business. To the extent that shares of our stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and our earnings per share may suffer. Any future acquisitions may not generate additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. We may also seek to divest of certain assets or businesses from time to time, especially if we need additional liquidity or capital resources. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. Acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that 19 our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results. We are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to record additional impairment charges that will adversely impact our results of operations. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill balances annually. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $18.1 million and $6.6 million related to the write-off of goodwill and certain intangible assets, respectively. The write-offs were triggered by the significant decline in our revenue and cash flows. The resulting assessment indicated a material decline in our market valuation and projected revenues, causing a decrease in the anticipated future cash flows attributable to these assets relative to the cash flow expectations when the assets were acquired. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment of our intangible assets exists for any reason, we would record additional impairment charges in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Pursuant to such provisions: our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; our board of directors is staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; nominations for election to our board of directors and the submission of matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting are subject to advance notice requirements; certain provisions in our bylaws and certificate of incorporation such as notice to stockholders, the ability to call a stockholder meeting, advance notice requirements and action of stockholders by written consent may only be amended with the approval of stockholders holding 66 2/3 percent of our outstanding voting stock; the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders is prohibited; and subject to certain exceptions requiring stockholder approval, our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. 20 In addition, the provisions in our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a potential acquiror to consummate an acquisition of our company. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, the person is an "interested stockholder" and may not engage in any "business combination" with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 