ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN GENERAL - ---------- You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision concerning our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 9 If any of the following risks actually materializes, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See "Forward Looking Statements" under Item 7 of this report for a discussion of forward looking statements. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE WHOLESALE BUSINESS - ----------------------------------------------- - - The Wholesale Distribution of Cigarettes and Convenience Store Products Is Significantly Affected by Cigarette Pricing Decisions and Promotional Programs Offered by Cigarette Manufacturers. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute including allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising incentives in connection with various incentive programs. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could be negatively affected. - - Increases in Fuel Prices Are Reducing Profit Margins and Adversely Affecting Our Business. Increases in fuel prices have had a negative impact on our profits over the past fiscal year. If fuel prices remain high, and we are not able to pass on these costs to customers, it will have an adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. - - Increases in Wholesale Distribution Business Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The wholesale distribution industry is highly competitive. There are many distribution companies operating in the same geographical regions as ADC. ADC's principal competitors are national and regional wholesalers, along with a host of smaller grocery and tobacco wholesalers. Most of these competitors generally offer a wide range of products at prices comparable to ADC's. Some of our competitors have substantial financial resources and long-standing customer relationships. Heightened competition may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could suffer. - - Due to Low Margins on the Products We Distribute, Changes in General Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, grocery products, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. 10 The wholesale distribution industry is characterized by high sales volumes with relatively low profit margins. Our non-cigarette sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally fixed on a cents per carton basis. If the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increases due to manufacturer price increases, our inventory costs could rise. To the extent that product cost increases can not be passed on to our customers, our results from operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could be negatively impacted. - - Our Sales Volume Is Largely Dependent upon the Distribution of Cigarette Products, Sales of Which Are Declining. The distribution of cigarettes is currently a significant portion of our business. In fiscal 2007, approximately 71% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 25% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the U.S. cigarette market has generally been declining, and is expected to continue to decline based on recent American Wholesale Marketers Association ("AWMA") studies. If this trend continues our results from operations, business, cash flow and financial condition will be negatively impacted. - - In the United States, We Purchase Cigarettes from Manufacturers Covered by the Industry's Master Settlement Agreement, Which Results in Competition from Lower Priced Sales of Cigarettes Produced by Manufacturers Who Do Not Participate in the Master Settlement Agreement. Increased selling prices and higher cigarette taxes have resulted in the growth of deep-discount cigarette brands. Deep-discount brands are brands generally manufactured by companies that are not original participants to the master settlement agreement, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with master settlement agreement related payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Since the master settlement agreement was signed in November 1998, the category of deep-discount brands manufactured by smaller manufacturers or supplied by importers has grown substantially. As a result of purchasing premium and discount cigarettes exclusively from manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands manufactured by companies that are not parties to the master settlement agreement. The cigarettes subject to the master settlement agreement that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps in the prices between those brands and the deep-discount brands for the past several years. As a result, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition may be negatively impacted as sales volumes of premium cigarettes erode. 11 - - We Face Competition from Illicit and Other Low Priced Cigarettes. We face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the master settlement agreement. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the Internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. - - If the Tobacco Industry's Master Settlement Agreement Is Invalidated, or Tobacco Manufacturers Cannot Meet Their Obligations to Indemnify Us, We Could Be Subject to Substantial Litigation Liability. In connection with the master settlement agreement, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. However, if litigation challenging the validity of the master settlement agreement were to be successful and the master settlement agreement is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively impacted due to increased litigation costs and potential adverse rulings against us. - - Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Are Subject to Substantial Excise Taxes and If These Taxes Are Increased, Our Sales of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Could Decline. Cigarette and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. In particular, the United States Congress has recently proposed legislation to renew and expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program ("SCHIP"), funded largely through significant increases in federal excise taxes on cigarette and tobacco products. While the most recently passed legislation was vetoed by the President and the veto was upheld by the House, it is likely that Congress will consider similar legislation in the near term as the current extension of the SCHIP program expires in November 2007. 12 If such legislation passed, and included increases in federal excise taxes on cigarette and tobacco products, it could have an adverse impact on consumption levels and result in lower sales volumes and/or a sales shift from higher margin premium cigarette and tobacco products to lower margin deep-discount brands, which could materially impact the Company's profitability. Historically, increases in cigarette and tobacco excise taxes have resulted in reduced consumer cigarette demand. Additionally, higher excise taxes increase the Company's accounts receivable and inventory carrying cost and could substantially impact our liquidity position. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes, which could adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE RETAIL BUSINESS - ------------------------------------------- - - Increases in Retail Health Food Store Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. In the retail health food business, our primary competitors currently include national natural foods supermarkets, such as Whole Foods and Wild Oats, conventional and specialty supermarkets, regional natural foods stores, small specialty stores and restaurants. In addition, conventional supermarkets and mass market outlets are increasing their emphasis on the sale of natural products. In addition, some traditional and specialty supermarkets are expanding more aggressively in marketing a range of natural foods, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these potential competitors may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. - - Part of Our Strategy Is to Expand Our Retail Health Food Business Through The Opening of New Stores, If We Are Unsuccessful it May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We also need to be able to open new stores timely and operate them successfully. In addition, our success is dependant on our ability to hire, train and integrate new qualified team members. Our success is also dependent on our ability to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. If we are not able to find and open new store locations and to close poor performing stores, this will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. 13 - - Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business. There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products including dietary supplements, fresh and processed foods and vitamins will be available to meet our future needs. If conventional supermarkets increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a materially adverse impact on our overall sales and cost of goods. - - Perishable Food Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results. We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than conventional supermarket stores. The Company's emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO THE OVERALL BUSINESS - --------------------------------------------- - - Capital Needed for Expansion May Not Be Available. The acquisition of existing stores, the opening of new retail stores, and the development of new production and distribution facilities requires significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from bank debt, private placements of equity and debt and internally generated cash flow. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future, which could impair our ability to further expand our business. - - Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility May Restrict Our Ability to React to Changes in Our Business or Industry Because They Restrict Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and Industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and Industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. - - Failure to Meet Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility Could Result in Acceleration of the Facility and We May not be Able to Find Alternative Financing. Under our credit facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would permit our lenders to declare all amounts 14 outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our revolving credit facility. - - Downturns in Economic Conditions Negatively Impacts Consumer Spending Resulting in a Reduction of Discretionary Spending for Items such as Snack Food, Cigarettes, and Health Foods. Our results of operations and financial condition are particularly sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. - - We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital or Borrow Funds to Provide Us with Sufficient Liquidity and Capital Resources Necessary to Meet Our Future Financial Obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and financial condition and, if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, these sources may not provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. - - We Depend on Relatively Few Suppliers for a Large Portion of Our Products, and Any Interruptions in the Supply of the Products That We Distribute Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. 15 - - We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. AMCON, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty can not fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - We Depend on Our Senior Management and Key Personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly William F. Wright, Chairman of the Board, Christopher H. Atayan, AMCON's Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board, Kathleen M. Evans, the Company's President, and Eric J. Hinkefent, the President of Health Food Associates, Inc. and Chamberlin's Natural Foods, Inc. While we maintain key person life insurance policies and have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. - - We Operate in a Competitive Labor Market and a Number of Our Employees Are Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at September 2007 approximately 4%, or approximately 36, of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization, which expires December 2008. We may not be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms. Employees at other facilities may try to unionize. We may not be able to recover labor cost increases through increased prices charged to customers or suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. 16 - - We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation and If We Are Unable to Comply with Regulations That Affect Our Business or If There Are Substantial Changes in These Regulations, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Department of Transportation and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the impact that future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, the effect of additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK - ----------------------------------------- - - The Company Has Very Few Shareholders of Record And, If this Number Drops below 300, the Company Will No Longer Be Obligated to Report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and in Such Case We May Be Delisted from the American Stock Exchange Reducing the Ability of Investors to Trade in Our Common Stock. If the number of record owners (including direct participants in the Depository Trust Company) of our common stock is less than 300, our obligations to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is suspended. If we take advantage of this right we will likely reduce administrative costs of complying with public company rules, but periodic and current information updates about the Company will not be available to investors. In addition, the common stock of the Company would be removed from listing on the American Stock Exchange. This would likely impact an investors' ability to trade in our common stock. - - In Relation to the Size of Our Company We Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Being a Public Company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently 17 implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations increase our legal, audit and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of being a public company, we are required to maintain additional board committees and formalize our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. - - We Have Various Mechanisms in Place to Discourage Takeover Attempts, Which May Reduce or Eliminate Our Stockholders' Ability to Sell Their Shares for a Premium in a Change of Control Transaction. Various provisions of our bylaws and of corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: -classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; -supermajority voting requirements to amend the provision in our certificate of incorporation providing for the classification of our directors into three such classes; -non-cumulative voting for directors; -control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; -limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and -advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. - - Failure to Regain Compliance with American Stock Exchange Listing Standards Could Have a Negative Effect on the Trading Price of Our Stock and Would likely Adversely Impact Our Investors' Ability to Trade in Our Common Stock In fiscal 2007, the Company was notified by the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) that it was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii)of the AMEX Company Guide regarding shareholders' equity of less than $4,000,000, and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. In order to maintain its AMEX listing, the Company submitted a plan outlining steps to regain compliance with the AMEX's 18 continued listing standards by March 11, 2008. As of September 30, 2007, the Company's shareholders' equity of $5.5 million exceeded the threshold set forth by Section 1003(a)(ii) of the AMEX Company Guide. After maintaining the required shareholders' equity for two successive quarters, the Company will have completed its comprehensive plan previously submitted to the AMEX. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 