ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN GENERAL - ---------- You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. RISKS AFFECTING THE WHOLESALE BUSINESS - -------------------------------------- - - the Wholesale Distribution of Cigarettes and Convenience Store Products Is Significantly Affected by Cigarette Pricing Decisions and Promotional Programs Offered by Cigarette Manufacturers. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute for, allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising incentives in connection with various incentive programs. These payments are a substantial benefit to us and the amount and timing of these payments are affected by changes in the programs by the manufacturers and our ability to sell specified volumes of a particular product or attaining specified levels of purchases by our customers or market share, and the duration of carrying a specified product. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected. Over the past several years, the industry has experienced the discontinuance of promotional programs, which led to price increases by distributors, followed by manufacturers reimplementing promotional programs less than a year later. In the first quarter of calendar year 2005, the industry saw price increases on certain cigarette brands and in fourth quarter of calendar year 2005 more changes to promotional programs were announced for fiscal 2006 which will require all distributors to pre-pay for cigarette inventory from a certain manufacturer in order to maintain the same level of discounts. Based on these activities, it is difficult to predict how changes in cigarette pricing and promotional programs will impact the Company and the industry in the future. - - Increases in Fuel Prices Are Reducing Profit Margins and Affecting Our Business. Increases in fuel prices are also having a negative impact on profits over the past year without any indications that they will return to past levels. If prices continue to rise and we are not able to pass these costs along to customers this will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. 15 - - Increases in Wholesale Distribution Business Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The distribution industry is highly competitive. There are many similar distribution companies operating in the same geographical regions as ADC. ADC's principal competitors are national wholesalers such as McLane Co., Inc. (Temple, Texas), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., and Core-Mark International (San Francisco, California) and regional wholesalers such as Eby-Brown LLP (Chicago, Illinois) and Farner-Bocken (Carroll, Iowa), along with a host of smaller grocery and tobacco wholesalers. Most of these competitors generally offer a wide range of products at prices comparable to ADC's. Some of our competitors, including McLane Company, Inc., the largest convenience wholesale distributor in the U.S., have substantial financial resources and long standing customer relationships. In addition, heightened competition may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could suffer. - - Due to the Low-margins on the Products We Distribute, Changes in General Economic Conditions Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, grocery products, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. The wholesale distribution industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. Our non-cigarette sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products, even though our gross profit as a percentage of the price of goods sold may remain relatively constant. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally fixed on a cents per carton basis. Therefore, as cigarette prices increase, gross profit generally decreases as a percent of sales. In addition, if the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increases due to manufacturer price or excise tax rate increases, our inventory costs and accounts receivable could rise. To the extent that product cost increases are not passed on to our customers due to their resistance to higher prices, our profit margins and earnings could be negatively impacted. The consumable goods distribution industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence may negatively impact our sales. Our operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties with the collectibility of accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. - - Our Sales Volume Is Largely Dependent upon the Distribution of Cigarette Products, Sales of Which Are Declining. The distribution of cigarettes is currently a significant portion of our business. For the year ended September 30, 2005, approximately 72% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 32% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the U.S. cigarette market has generally been declining, 16 and is expected to continue to decline. Notwithstanding the general decline in consumption, we have benefitted from a shift of cigarette sales to convenience stores. However, this favorable trend may not continue. - - Legislation and Other Matters Are Negatively Affecting the Cigarette and Tobacco Industry. The tobacco industry is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations regarding the advertising, sale, taxation and use of tobacco products imposed by local, state, federal and foreign governments. Various state and provincial governments have adopted or are considering legislation and regulations restricting displays and advertising of tobacco products, establishing fire safety standards for cigarettes, raising the minimum age to possess or purchase tobacco products, requiring the disclosure of ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products, imposing restrictions on public smoking, restricting the sale of tobacco products directly to consumers or other unlicensed recipients over the Internet, and other tobacco product regulation. Other states may adopt similar legislation and initiate similar lawsuits. In addition, cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. These tax increases are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels or sales outside of legitimate channels. - - In the United States, We Purchase Cigarettes from Manufacturers Covered by the Industry's Master Settlement Agreement, Which Results in Our Facing Increased Financial Risks. In June 1994, the Mississippi attorney general brought an action against various tobacco industry members. This action was brought on behalf of the state to recover state funds paid for health-care, medical and other assistance to state citizens suffering from diseases and conditions allegedly related to tobacco use. Most other states, through their attorneys general or other state agencies, sued the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers based on similar theories. The cigarette manufacturer defendants settled the first four of these cases scheduled for trial Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota by separate agreements between each state and those manufacturers in each case. These states are referred to as non-master settlement agreement states. In November 1998, the major U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the master settlement agreement with the other 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. The master settlement agreement and the other state settlement agreements: settled all health-care cost recovery actions brought by, or on behalf of, the settling jurisdictions; released the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers from various additional present and potential future claims relating to past conduct arising out of the use, sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing or health effects of, the exposure to, or research, statements or warnings about, tobacco products; settled all monetary claims relating to future conduct arising out of the use of, or exposure to, tobacco products that have been manufactured in the ordinary course of business; imposed a stream of future payment obligations on major U.S. cigarette manufacturers; and placed significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes. 17 The payments required under the master settlement agreement result in the products sold by the participating manufacturers to be priced at higher levels than non-master settlement agreement manufacturers. In order to limit our potential tobacco related liabilities, we do not purchase cigarettes from non-master settlement agreement manufacturers for sale in master settlement agreement states. The benefits of the master settlement agreement do not apply to sales of cigarettes manufactured by non-master settlement agreement manufacturers. - - In the United States, We Purchase Cigarettes from Manufacturers Covered by the Industry's Master Settlement Agreement, Which Results in Competition from Lower Priced Sales of Cigarettes Produced by Manufacturers Who Do Not Participate in the Master Settlement Agreement. Competition among cigarette manufacturers for cigarette sales is primarily based on brand positioning, price, product attributes, consumer loyalty, promotions, advertising and retail presence. Cigarette brands produced by the major manufacturers generally require competitive pricing, substantial marketing support, retail programs and other financial incentives to maintain or improve a brand's market position. Increased selling prices and higher cigarette taxes have resulted in the growth of deep-discount brands. Deep-discount brands are brands manufactured by companies that are not original participants to the master settlement agreement, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with master settlement agreement related payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Historically, major manufacturers have had a competitive advantage in the United States because of significant cigarette marketing restrictions and the scale of investment required to compete made gaining consumer awareness and trial of new brands difficult. However, since the master settlement agreement was signed in November 1998, the category of deep-discount brands manufactured by smaller manufacturers or supplied by importers has grown substantially. As a result of purchasing premium and discount cigarettes for sale in master settlement agreement states exclusively from manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands from non-master settlement agreement manufacturers and deep-discount brand growth. We believe that small manufacturers, not subject to the master settlement agreement, of deep-discount brands have steadily increased their combined market share of cigarette sales. The premium and discount cigarettes subject to the master settlement agreement that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps in the prices between those brands and the deep-discount brands for the past several years. The growth in market share of the deep-discount brands since the master settlement agreement was signed in 1998 has had an adverse impact on the volume of the cigarettes that we sell. As a result, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted as sales volumes of premium cigarettes erode. - - We Also Face Competition from Illicit and Other Low Priced Sales of Cigarettes. We also face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to 18 avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the master settlement agreement. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the Internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. - - If the Tobacco Industry's Master Settlement Agreement Is Invalidated, or Tobacco Manufacturers Cannot Meet Their Obligations to Indemnify Us, We Could Be Subject to Substantial Litigation Liability. In connection with the master settlement agreement, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. To date, litigation challenging the validity of the master settlement agreement, including claims that the master settlement agreement violates antitrust laws, has not been successful. However, if such litigation were to be successful and the master settlement agreement is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers and us could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted due to increased litigation costs and potential adverse rulings against us. - - Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Are Subject to Substantial Excise Taxes and If These Taxes Are Increased, Our Sales of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Could Decline. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. These tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and a shift in sales from the premium to the non-premium or discount cigarette segments or to sales outside of legitimate channels. If these excise taxes are substantially increased, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. - - If the Costs of the Products We Distribute Increase, or Excise Stamp Taxes Increase, and We Cannot Pass These Increases on to Our Customers, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected. If we cannot pass along to our customers increases in our cost of goods sold which we experience when manufacturers or taxing authorities increase prices or taxes or reduce or eliminate discounts, rebates, allowances and other incentive programs, our profit margins could erode. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. 19 If we cannot pass along cost increases to our customers due to resistance to higher prices, our relatively narrow profit margins and earnings could be negatively affected. - - We Are Dependent on the Convenience Store Industry for Our Revenues, and Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Would Suffer If There Is an Overall Decline in the Convenience Store Industry. The majority of our sales are made under purchase orders and short-term contracts with convenience stores which inherently involve significant risks. These risks include the uncertainty of general economic conditions in the convenience store industry, credit exposure from our customers and termination of customer relationships without notice, consolidation of our customer base, and consumer movement toward purchasing from club stores. Any of these factors could negatively affect the convenience store industry which would negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO RETAIL BUSINESS - --------------------------------------- - - Increases in Retail Health Food Store Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. In the retail health food business, our primary competitors currently include national natural foods supermarkets, such as Whole Foods and Wild Oats, conventional and specialty supermarkets, other regional natural foods stores, small specialty stores and restaurants. These businesses compete with us in one or more product categories. Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats, continue to expand their geographic markets by opening stores in new markets. In addition, conventional supermarkets and mass market outlets are also increasing their emphasis on the sale of natural products. In addition, some traditional and specialty supermarkets are expanding more aggressively in marketing a range of natural foods, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. These strategies have contributed to the saturation of health food retail stores in some markets. This has increased competition in the health food sector and has had a restraining impact on same store sales increases in some markets and a slight reduction in same store sales in other markets. Further, some of these potential competitors may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. - - Part of Our Strategy Is to Expand Our Retail Health Food Business Through The Opening of New Stores, If We Are Unsuccessful it May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open or acquire new retail health food stores in existing and new markets and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We also need to be able to open new stores timely and operate them successfully. In addition, our success is dependant on our ability to hire, train and integrate new qualified team members. Management continues to 20 closely review all store locations for opportunities to close or relocate marginally performing stores, remodel and expand performing stores and identify locations for additional stores. Our success is dependant on our ability to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. If we are not able to find and open new store locations and to close poor performing stores this will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Comparable Store Sales. Our comparable store sales in the future could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons including new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing markets, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against above-average sales results in the prior year. Results of operations and financial condition may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as it becomes more difficult to leverage expenses at a lower level of sales. - - Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business. There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products including dietary supplements, fresh and processed foods and vitamins will be available to meet our future needs. If conventional supermarkets increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods. - - Perishable Food Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results. We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than conventional supermarket stores. The Company's emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. RISKS RELATED TO BEVERAGE BUSINESS - - Increases in Beverage Business Competition May Have a Severe Effect on Our Business. The bottled water market is highly competitive, with numerous participants selling products often perceived as generic by consumers. The principal bases of competition in the industry are brand recognition, price, water source for bottled water products, and packaging. Price competition has become more pronounced as the industry has matured. The Company seeks to develop recognition for its brands by differentiating its products from more recognized products in the brand category. The Hawaiian Springs brands of water are unique because of their water source. HNWC is the only producer of natural spring water from Hawaii. Most other popular brands, are all bottled on the mainland and sell purified municipal water, not natural or spring water. If we are not able to differentiate the product and brand 21 from bottlers purified municipal water, we will not be able to increase our prices and this will have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation, business, cash flow and financial condition in the beverage businesses. RISKS RELATED TO OVERALL BUSINESS - --------------------------------- - - Capital Needed for Expansion May Not Be Available. The acquisition of existing stores, the opening of new retail stores, and the development of new production and distribution facilities requires significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from bank debt, private placements of equity and debt and internally generated cash flow. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future. In addition, restrictive covenants that may be imposed by our lenders may restrict our ability to fund our growth. - - Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility May Restrict Our Ability to React to Changes in Our Business or Industry Because They Restrict Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. - - Failure to Meet Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility Could Result in Acceleration of the Facility and We May not be Able to Find Alternative Financing. Under our revolving credit facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would permit our lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our revolving credit facility. - - During Our First and Second Fiscal Quarters We Generally Experience Reduced Sales of Our Products Due to Seasonality of Our Business, Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate for many reasons, including seasonality of our business, losses from beverage segment, variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in store operating costs, possible supply shortages, extreme weather-related disruptions, and potential uninsured casualty losses or other losses. Sales in the wholesale distribution and beverage segments are somewhat seasonal by nature and tend to be higher in warm weather months, which generally fall within the Company's third and fourth fiscal quarters. 22 In addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as the result of the timing of new retail store openings, the timing of acquisitions, the range of operating results generated from newly opened retail stores and changes in estimates associated with the disposal of discontinued operations. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations and financial condition have been and may be materially impacted by the timing of new retail store openings. - - Downturns in Economic Conditions Negatively Impacts Consumer Spending Resulting in a Reduction of Discretionary Spending for Items such as Snack Food, Cigarettes, Bottled Water and Health Foods. Our results of operations and financial condition may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. - - Legal Proceedings Could Materially Impact Our Results. As described under Item 3 - Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company is subject to litigation in the District Court of the Fifth Judicial District of the State of Idaho in connection with its acquisition of TSI, an 85% owned subsidiary of the Company. In December 2005, the District Court granted the minority shareholder plaintiffs' motion for partial summary judgment declaring that the stockholders of Trinity Springs, Ltd. (which subsequently changed its name to Crystal Paradise Holdings, Inc. ("CPH")), did not validly approve the sale of its business and assets to the Company because the vote of certain shares issued as a dividend should not have been counted in the vote. Since the District Court's December ruling, the minority shareholder plaintiffs have filed notice with the District Court that they agree that rescission is not a feasible remedy. However, the District Court has made no determination as to the appropriate remedy in this matter. - - If We Are Not Able to Retain Customers and Attract New Customers, Our Business Could Suffer. Increasing the growth and profitability of our distribution business is particularly dependent upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers. The ability to capture additional customers through our existing network of distribution centers is especially important because it enables us to leverage our distribution centers and other fixed assets. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon our ability to provide industry-leading customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency in distributing products to our customers while integrating new customers into our distribution system, compete with competitors who are paying our customers to switch distributors and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to maintain and attract a significant number of new customers and our existing customer base could continue to decrease, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. 23 - - We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital or Borrow Funds to Provide Us with Sufficient Liquidity and Capital Resources Necessary to Meet Our Future Financial Obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and financial condition and, if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, these sources may not provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. - - We Depend on Relatively Few Suppliers for a Large Portion of Our Products, and Any Interruptions in the Supply of the Products That We Distribute Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. - - We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. AMCON, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty can not fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. - - We Depend on Our Senior Management and Key Personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly William F. Wright, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Christopher H. Atayan, our Vice Chairman and Chief Corporate Officer and Kathleen M. Evans, our 24 President and Eric J. Hinkefent, the President of Health Food Associates, Inc. And Chamberlain Natural Foods, Inc. While we maintain key person life insurance policies on certain of these individuals and we have employment agreements with Mr. Wright, Ms. Evans and Mr. Hinkefent, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. - - We Operate in a Competitive Labor Market and a Small Portion of Our Employees Are Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements. Our continued success will partly depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at September 30, 2005 approximately 3%, or approximately 31, of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization, which expires December 2008. We may not be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms. Employees at other facilities may try to unionize. We may not be able to recover labor cost increases through increased prices charged to customers or suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, to control our labor costs, or to recover any increased labor costs through increased prices charged to our customers or offsets by productivity gains, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. - - We Are Subject to Governmental Regulation and If We Are Unable to Comply with Regulations That Affect Our Business or If There Are Substantial Changes in These Regulations, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our employees operate tractor trailers, trucks, forklifts and various other powered material handling equipment. Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation, Drug Enforcement Agency and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition would be adversely affected. - - Failure to Comply with Labeling Rules and Regulations and Unfavorable Changes in Government Regulation Could Harm Our Business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with provisions regulating distribution of Consumer products, health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal employment, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food. 25 Our new store openings could be delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of products are subject to regulation by various federal agencies including the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), U.S. Consumer Safety Protection Commission ("CSPC"), U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") and Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The composition and labeling of nutritional supplements are most actively regulated by the FDA under the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 ("FFDC Act"). The FFDC Act has been revised in recent years with respect to dietary supplements by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. We cannot predict the impact that future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - Compliance with the USDA's Organic Rules may Prove Burdensome for Our Suppliers Resulting in a Disruption in Our Business. The USDA's Organic Rule, implemented into federal law on October 21, 2002, should facilitate interstate commerce and the marketing of fresh and processed food that is organically produced and should also provide an assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule might pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. - - Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations or Discovery of Toxic Substances could have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business. All the facilities and operations of the Company are subject to state and federal environmental regulations. While the Company believes that all of its real property is in compliance with all regulations regarding the discharge of toxic substances into the environment, failure to comply with these requirements or a finding of leaks or toxic substances on our real property could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. - - We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Failure to protect our proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. 26 - - Self-Insurance Plan Claims Could Materially Impact Our Business. The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers' compensation, general liability, property insurance, vehicle liability and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. - - Effective Tax Rate Changes and Results of Examinations by Taxing Authorities Could Materially Impact Our Business. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in states or countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in states or countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other state and local taxing authorities. Our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. - - Earthquake and Natural Disaster Damage Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Business. Our locations in the Midwest and Florida are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding, snow storms, tornados and severe storms. Certain of our retail locations are subject to severe heat in the summer and cold in the winter. We manage this risk of loss by maintaining insurance to indemnify us for losses due to such circumstances. However, significant weather or earthquake damage could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage which would materially adversely affect our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. We also have operations and financial condition in other areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, flooding, ice and snow storms. We maintain insurance to indemnify us for losses due to such occurrences, but our insurance may not be sufficient or payments under our policies may not be received timely enough to prevent adverse impacts on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. Our customers could also be affected by like events, adversely impacting our sales. - - Our Information Technology Systems May Be Subject to Failure or Disruptions, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Our business is highly dependent on our information systems ("IS"). The convenience store industry does not have a standard information technology, or IT platform. Therefore, actively integrating our customers into our IT platform is a priority, and our IS platform provides our distribution centers with the flexibility to adapt to our customers' IT requirements. We also rely on our IS, and our internal information technology staff, to maintain the information required to operate our distribution centers and provide our customers with fast, efficient and reliable deliveries. 27 If our IS fails or is subject to disruptions, we may suffer disruptions in service to our customers and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. - - Information System Upgrades or Integrations May Disrupt Our Operations and Financial Condition or Financial Reporting. We continually evaluate and upgrade our management information systems. We have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years, and the information systems at some of the acquired operations have not been fully integrated with our information systems. Although we do not anticipate any disruption in our operations or financial reporting as a result of system upgrades or system integrations, there can be no assurance that such disruption will not occur or that the desired benefits from the system upgrades will be realized. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK - ---------------------------------- - - The Company Has Very Few Shareholders of Record And, If this Number Drops below 300, the Company Will No Longer Be Obligated to Report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and in Such Case We May Be Delisted from the American Stock Exchange Reducing the Ability of Investors to Trade in Our Common Stock. If the number of record owners (including direct participants in the Depository Trust Company) of our common stock is less than 300, our obligations to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is suspended. If we take advantage of this right we will likely reduce administrative costs of complying with public company rules, but periodic and current information updates about the Company will not be available to investors. In addition, the common stock of the Company would be removed from listing on the American Stock Exchange. This would likely impact an investors ability to trade in our common stock. - - We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. If We Fail to Remedy These or Any Other Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting That We May Identify or We Fail to Implement Proposed Remedies, Such Failures Could Result in Material Misstatements in Our Financial Statements, Cause Investors to Lose Confidence in Our Reported Financial Information and Have a Negative Effect on the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. A material weakness is defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As discussed below in Item 9A - Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. To remedy these weaknesses we have taken the following steps: retained a new Acting President at HNWC; retained a consultant to investigate accounting irregularities and to guide internal accounting personnel in the application of generally accepted accounting principles related to inventory and production cost accounting; hired accounting staff with more experience at HNWC; more regular review by HNWC management of product cost summaries and 28 inventory cost changes; a more rigorous subsidiary financial statement review by corporate management and enhanced the training of our accounting staff and required periodic review of a wider variety of current technical accounting literature to obtain a reasonable level of assurance that all appropriate accounting guidance is applied to transactions such as discontinued operations and will retain financial expertise as deemed necessary. If we fail to implement these remedies successfully, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial reporting. - - In Relation to the Size of Our Company We Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Being a Public Company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, audit and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we are required to create additional board committees and formalize our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. - - We May Be Unable to Meet Our Obligation to Conform to the Rules Adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is required in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 but proposed regulations may extend this date. While our management is expending significant resources in an effort to complete this important project, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate the material weaknesses we have identified or any other material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal control over financial reporting that 29 are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. - - Our Stock Price Can Be Volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events. These market factors and events include variations in our earnings results, changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, publicity regarding us, our competitors, the natural products industry generally, new statutes or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing statutes or regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically, sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. - - We Have Various Mechanisms in Place to Discourage Takeover Attempts, Which May Reduce or Eliminate Our Stockholders' Ability to Sell Their Shares for a Premium in a Change of Control Transaction. Various provisions of our bylaws and of corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: -classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; -supermajority voting requirements to amend the provision in our certificate of incorporation providing for the classification of our directors into three such classes; -non-cumulative voting for directors; -control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; -limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and -advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS This Item of Form 10-K is not applicable as AMCON is not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act or a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 