ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN GENERAL - ---------- You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually materializes, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve 10 risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. RISKS AFFECTING THE WHOLESALE BUSINESS - -------------------------------------- - - The Wholesale Distribution of Cigarettes and Convenience Store Products Is Significantly Affected by Cigarette Pricing Decisions and Promotional Programs Offered by Cigarette Manufacturers. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute for, allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising incentives in connection with various incentive programs. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively affected. - - Increases in Fuel Prices Are Reducing Profit Margins and Affecting Our Business. Increases in fuel prices have had a negative impact on profits over the past year. If fuel prices remain high, and we are not able to pass on these costs to customers, it will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - Increases in Wholesale Distribution Business Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The distribution industry is highly competitive. There are many distribution companies operating in the same geographical regions as ADC. ADC's principal competitors are national wholesalers and regional wholesalers, along with a host of smaller grocery and tobacco wholesalers. Most of these competitors generally offer a wide range of products at prices comparable to ADC's. Some of our competitors, have substantial financial resources and long-standing customer relationships. In addition, heightened competition may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition could suffer. - - Due to the Low-margins on the Products We Distribute, Changes in General Economic Conditions Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, grocery products, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. The wholesale distribution industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. Our non-cigarette sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally 11 fixed on a cents per carton basis. If the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increases due to manufacturer price or excise tax rate increases, our inventory costs and accounts receivable could rise. To the extent that product cost increases are not passed on to our customers due to their resistance to higher prices, our results from operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively impacted. - - Our Sales Volume Is Largely Dependent upon the Distribution of Cigarette Products, Sales of Which Are Declining. The distribution of cigarettes is currently a significant portion of our business. For the year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 72% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 27% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the U.S. cigarette market has generally been declining, and is expected to continue to decline. If this trend continues our results from operations, business, cash flow and financial condition will be negatively impacted. - - In the United States, We Purchase Cigarettes from Manufacturers Covered by the Industry's Master Settlement Agreement, Which Results in Competition from Lower Priced Sales of Cigarettes Produced by Manufacturers Who Do Not Participate in the Master Settlement Agreement. Increased selling prices and higher cigarette taxes have resulted in the growth of deep-discount brands. Deep-discount brands are brands manufactured by companies that are not original participants to the master settlement agreement, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with master settlement agreement related payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Since the master settlement agreement was signed in November 1998, the category of deep-discount brands manufactured by smaller manufacturers or supplied by importers has grown substantially. As a result of purchasing premium and discount cigarettes exclusively from manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands from non-master settlement agreement manufacturers and deep-discount brand growth. The premium and discount cigarettes subject to the master settlement agreement that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps in the prices between those brands and the deep-discount brands for the past several years. As a result, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition may be negatively impacted as sales volumes of premium cigarettes erode. - - We Also Face Competition from Illicit and Other Low Priced Sales of Cigarettes. We also face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of 12 higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the master settlement agreement. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the Internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - If the Tobacco Industry's Master Settlement Agreement Is Invalidated, or Tobacco Manufacturers Cannot Meet Their Obligations to Indemnify Us, We Could Be Subject to Substantial Litigation Liability. In connection with the master settlement agreement, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. However, if litigation challenging the validity of the master settlement agreement were to be successful and the master settlement agreement is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the master settlement agreement, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively impacted due to increased litigation costs and potential adverse rulings against us. - - Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Are Subject to Substantial Excise Taxes and If These Taxes Are Increased, Our Sales of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Could Decline. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. These tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and a shift in sales from the premium to the non-premium or discount cigarette segments or to sales outside of legitimate channels. If these excise taxes are substantially increased, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. The majority of our sales are made under purchase orders and short-term contracts with convenience stores which inherently involve significant risks. These risks include the uncertainty of general economic conditions in the convenience store industry, credit exposure from our customers and termination of customer relationships without notice, consolidation of our customer base, and consumer movement toward purchasing from club stores. Any of these factors could negatively affect the convenience store industry which would negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO RETAIL BUSINESS - --------------------------------------- - - Increases in Retail Health Food Store Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. In the retail health food business, our primary competitors currently include national natural foods supermarkets, such as Whole Foods and Wild Oats, conventional and specialty supermarkets, other regional natural foods stores, small specialty stores and restaurants. In addition, conventional supermarkets and mass market outlets are also increasing their emphasis on the sale of natural products. In addition, some traditional and specialty supermarkets are expanding more aggressively in marketing a range of natural foods, thereby competing directly with us for products, customers and locations. Some of these potential competitors may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition as the result of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing. - - Part of Our Strategy Is to Expand Our Retail Health Food Business Through The Opening of New Stores, If We Are Unsuccessful it May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Our expansion strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. We also need to be able to open new stores timely and operate them successfully. In addition, our success is dependant on our ability to hire, train and integrate new qualified team members. Our success is also dependent on our ability to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner. If we are not able to find and open new store locations and to close poor performing stores this will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - Changes in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business. There is no assurance that quality natural and organic products including dietary supplements, fresh and processed foods and vitamins will be available to meet our future needs. If conventional supermarkets increase their natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods. - - Perishable Food Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results. We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than conventional supermarket stores. The Company's emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. 14 - - Compliance with the USDA's Organic Rules may Prove Burdensome for Our Suppliers Resulting in a Disruption in Our Business. Compliance with the USDA's Organic Rule, implemented into federal law on October 21, 2002, might pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings. RISKS RELATED TO OVERALL BUSINESS - --------------------------------- - - Capital Needed for Expansion May Not Be Available. The acquisition of existing stores, the opening of new retail stores, and the development of new production and distribution facilities requires significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through proceeds from bank debt, private placements of equity and debt and internally generated cash flow. These and other sources of capital may not be available to us in the future. - - Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility May Restrict Our Ability to React to Changes in Our Business or Industry Because They Restrict Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing. Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. - - Failure to Meet Restrictive Covenants in Our Revolving Credit Facility Could Result in Acceleration of the Facility and We May not be Able to Find Alternative Financing. Under our credit facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would permit our lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our revolving credit facility. - - Downturns in Economic Conditions Negatively Impacts Consumer Spending Resulting in a Reduction of Discretionary Spending for Items such as Snack Food, Cigarettes, Bottled Water and Health Foods. Our results of operations and financial condition are particularly sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to our competitors. A general reduction in 15 the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. - - Legal Proceedings Could Materially Impact Our Results. As described under Item 3 - Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company is involved in litigation regarding the ownership of the assets of TSI, which is a consolidated subsidiary of AMCON and classified as a component of discontinued operations. The dispute, which began in June 2004, arose over the sale of substantially all of the assets of Trinity Springs, Ltd. (which later changed its name to Crystal Paradise Holdings, Inc. ("CPH"). The Plaintiffs in the lawsuit are a group of minority shareholders, and the Defendants are AMCON, TSL Acquisition Corp (which later became TSI), CPH, and the former directors of CPH. On October 16, 2006, the Court approved a settlement in the case which resolved all disputes between the shareholders plaintiffs, CPH, AMCON, TSI and the Defendant Directors, with two exceptions that relate to AMCON. The settlement did not resolve claims that CPH may have against AMCON and TSI or that AMCON and TSI may have against CPH. The settlement also did not resolve the claims of a single shareholder plaintiff, who declined to agree to the settlement. The claims of the single minority shareholder remain pending. With respect to the remaining claims, AMCON's management, after consulting with trial counsel, is unable to state that any outcome to AMCON is either probable or remote and therefore cannot estimate the amount or range of any potential loss. If these claims are decided against AMCON, it could have a material adverse impact on AMCON's results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital or Borrow Funds to Provide Us with Sufficient Liquidity and Capital Resources Necessary to Meet Our Future Financial Obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and financial condition and, if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, these sources may not provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. - - We Depend on Relatively Few Suppliers for a Large Portion of Our Products, and Any Interruptions in the Supply of the Products That We Distribute Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain 16 adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. - - We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. AMCON, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty can not fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - We Depend on Our Senior Management and Key Personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly William F. Wright, Chairman of the Board, Christopher H. Atayan, AMCON's Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman, Kathleen M. Evans, the Company's President, and Eric J. Hinkefent, the President of Health Food Associates, Inc. and Chamberlin's Natural Foods, Inc. While we maintain key person life insurance policies and have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. - - We Operate in a Competitive Labor Market and a Number of Our Employees Are Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at September 30, 2006 approximately 3%, or approximately 31, of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization, which expires December 2008. We may not be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms. Employees at other facilities may try to unionize. We may not be able to recover labor cost increases through increased prices charged to customers or suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. 17 - - We Are Subject to substantial Governmental Regulation and If We Are Unable to Comply with Regulations That Affect Our Business or If There Are Substantial Changes in These Regulations, Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA"), the Department of Transportation and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the impact that future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, the effect of additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition. - - Self-Insurance Plan Claims Could Materially Impact Our Business. The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers' compensation, general liability, property insurance, vehicle liability and employee health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. - - Our Information Technology Systems May Be Subject to Failure or Disruptions, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Our business is highly dependent on our information systems ("IS"). The convenience store industry does not have a standard information technology, or IT platform. Therefore, actively integrating our customers into our IT platform is a priority, and our IS platform provides our distribution centers with the flexibility to adapt to our customers' IT requirements. We also rely on our IS, and our internal information technology staff, to maintain the information required to operate our distribution centers and provide our customers with fast, efficient and reliable deliveries. If our IS fails or is subject to disruptions, we may suffer disruptions in service to our customers and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. 18 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK - ---------------------------------- - - The Company Has Very Few Shareholders of Record And, If this Number Drops below 300, the Company Will No Longer Be Obligated to Report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and in Such Case We May Be Delisted from the American Stock Exchange Reducing the Ability of Investors to Trade in Our Common Stock. If the number of record owners (including direct participants in the Depository Trust Company) of our common stock is less than 300, our obligations to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is suspended. If we take advantage of this right we will likely reduce administrative costs of complying with public company rules, but periodic and current information updates about the Company will not be available to investors. In addition, the common stock of the Company would be removed from listing on the American Stock Exchange. This would likely impact an investors' ability to trade in our common stock. - - In Relation to the Size of Our Company We Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Being a Public Company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations increase our legal, audit and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of being a public company, we are required to maintain additional board committees and formalize our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. - - We May Be Unable to Meet Our Obligation to Conform to the Rules Adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is required in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007 but proposed regulations may extend this date. While our management is expending significant resources in an effort to complete this important project, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 19 Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate the material weaknesses we have identified or any other material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. - - Weaknesses in Our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Could Result in Material Misstatements in Our Financial Statements, Cause Investors to Lose Confidence in Our Reported Financial Information and Have a Negative Effect on the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. A material weakness is defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. During fiscal 2006, the Company identified certain material weaknesses that existed in our internal controls over fiscal 2005 financial reporting. During fiscal 2006, we took steps to remedy these weaknesses, however, if we failed to implement these remedies properly, such failure could result in a material misstatement in our financial reporting. - - We Have Various Mechanisms in Place to Discourage Takeover Attempts, Which May Reduce or Eliminate Our Stockholders' Ability to Sell Their Shares for a Premium in a Change of Control Transaction. Various provisions of our bylaws and of corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed to by our management and board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: -classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; -supermajority voting requirements to amend the provision in our certificate of incorporation providing for the classification of our directors into three such classes; -non-cumulative voting for directors; -control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; -limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and -advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. 20 - - Failure to Regain Compliance with American Stock Exchange Listing Standards Could Have a Negative Effect on the Trading Price of Our Stock and Would likely Adversely Impact Our Investors' Ability to Trade in Our Common Stock In September 2006, the Company was notified by the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) that it was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide regarding shareholders' equity of less than $2,000,000, and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years. In order to maintain its AMEX listing, the Company submitted a plan outlining steps to regain compliance with the AMEX continued listing standards by March 11, 2008. On November 21, 2006, the Company received notice from the American Stock accepting the Company's plan to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide. If the Company's fails to achieve AMEX compliance by March 11, 2008, the Company could face delisting proceeding which would likely impact investors' ability to trade in our common stock and adversely affect its trading price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 