ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are dependent on our revenue and the success of our cost reduction measures to ensure adequate liquidity and capital resources during the next twelve months.We have incurred operating losses and generated negative cash flows for the last four years. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $16.2 million and working capital of $41.5 million. Our operations require careful management of our cash and working capital balances. Our liquidity is affected by many factors including, among others, fluctuations in our revenue, gross profits and operating expenses, as well as changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry makes it difficult for us to predict our future liquidity needs with certainty. Any upturn in the semiconductor industry would result in short-term uses of our cash to fund inventory purchases. In 8addition, the ineffectiveness of our cost reduction efforts may cause us to incur additional losses in the future and lower our cash balances. We may need additional funds to support our working capital requirements, and operating expenses, or for other requirements. Historically, we have relied on a combination of fundraising from the sale of equity securities and cash generated from product, service and royalty revenues to provide funding for our operations. We will continue to review our expected cash requirements and take appropriate cost reduction measures to ensure that we have sufficient liquidity. Although we will pursue cost reduction measures, we are largely dependent upon improvement in the semiconductor equipment industry specifically, and general continued improvement in the economy as a whole, to increase our sales in order to improve our profitability and cash position. We periodically review our liquidity position and may seek to raise additional funds from a combination of sources including issuance of equity or debt securities through public or private financings. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we also may seek to raise these funds externally through other means, such as the sale of assets. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, including among others, market conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings, and our ability to maintain our listing on NASDAQ. As a consequence, these financing options may not be available to us on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us, and could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our current liquidity position may result in risks and uncertainties affecting our operations and financial position, including the following: •we may be required to reduce planned expenditures or investments; •we may be unable to compete in our newer or developing markets; •we may not be able to obtain and maintain normal terms with suppliers; •suppliers may require standby letters of credit before delivering goods and services, which will result in additional demands on our cash; •customers may delay or discontinue entering into contracts with us; and •our ability to retain management and other key individuals may be negatively affected. Failure to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, raise additional capital or reduce spending could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our intended long-term business objectives. We are dependent on a highly concentrated customer base, and any delays, reduction or cancellation of purchases by these customers could harm our business. Additionally, we may not achieve anticipated revenue levels if we are not selected as “vendor of choice” for new or expanded customer fabrication facilities. We derive most of our net sales from the sale of systems to a relatively small number of customers, which makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. For example, in each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 60 percent of our net sales. We currently depend on one customer for a significant portion of our net sales, and the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from this customer would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. See Item 1. Business - Customers for a detailed description of our customer concentration. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor fabrication facility, these manufacturers will tend to choose semiconductor equipment manufacturers based on product compatibility and proven performance. Changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from customers could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory, such as the delay in orders for certain SUPREMA strip systems to a foundry that we experienced in the second quarter of 2012, and for which we do not anticipate shipment to occur until 2013. In addition, customer order cancellations, which are occurring more regularly in our business, could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Any such changes, delays and cancellations in orders in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate. If customer relationships are disrupted due to an inability to deliver sufficient products or for any other reason, it could have a significant negative impact on our business.Although we maintain a backlog of customer orders with expected shipment dates within the next 12 months, customers may request delivery delays or cancellations, as they have been doing more regularly in our business, including a delay in the second quarter of 2012 described above. Customers in some regions place orders a few weeks before the shipment. As a result, our backlog may not be a reliable indication of future net sales. If shipments of orders in backlog are canceled or delayed, net sales could fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts and investors.9Once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular vendor's capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon equipment from this vendor of choice ("VOC") for the specific production line application. In addition, the semiconductor manufacturer frequently will attempt to consolidate other capital equipment requirements with the same vendors. Accordingly, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the VOC by new customers with significant needs. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor's product. If we are unable to achieve broader market acceptance of our systems and technology, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.We face stiff competition in the semiconductor equipment industry. The semiconductor equipment industry is both highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors include the following: •system performance; •cost of ownership; •size of the installed base; •breadth of product line; •delivery speed; and •customer support. Competitive pressure has been increasing in several areas. In addition to increased price competition, customers are waiting to make purchase commitments based on their end-user demand, which are then placed with requests for rapid delivery dates and increased product support. Most of our major competitors are larger than we are, have greater capital resources and may have a competitive advantage over us by virtue of having: •broader product lines; •greater experience with handling manufacturing cycles; •substantially larger customer bases; and •substantially greater customer support, financial, technical and marketing resources. Growth in the semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly concentrated in the largest companies, resulting in increasing industry consolidation, such as the merger of Lam Research and Novellus Systems. Semiconductor companies are consolidating their vendor base and prefer to purchase from vendors with a strong, worldwide support infrastructure.To expand our sales we must often displace the systems of our competitors or sell new systems to customers of our competitors. Our competitors may develop new or enhanced competitive products that offer price or performance features that are superior to our systems. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and on-site customer support of their product lines. We may not be able to maintain or expand our sales if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has caused us to experience losses and reduced liquidity, and it may continue to negatively impact our financial performance. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical and periodically has severe and prolonged downturns, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity, including decreased demand for our products and increased price competition.The semiconductor industry has historically experienced periodic downturns due to general economic changes or due to capacity growth temporarily exceeding growth in demand for semiconductor devices. Our business depends, in significant part, 10upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductor devices, including manufacturers that open new or expand existing facilities. Periods of overcapacity and reductions in capital expenditures by our customers cause decreases in demand for our products. This could result in significant under-utilization in our factories. If existing customer fabrication facilities are not expanded and new facilities are not built, we may be unable to generate significant new orders and sales for our systems. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, our customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of ordered products and/or cancel orders, resulting in reduced net sales and backlog, delays in revenue recognition and excess inventory for us. For example, we experienced a delay in the shipment of SUPREMA strip systems in the second quarter of 2012 as a result of softness in the industry that we expect to continue until 2013. As a result, we had a reduction in our net sales in the quarter and the year, and consequently, lower results of operations and cash from operations. Increased price competition may also result as we compete for the smaller demand in the market, causing pressure on our gross margin and net income.We must continually anticipate technology trends, improve our existing products and develop new products in order to be competitive. The development of new or enhanced products involves significant risks, additional costs and delays in revenue recognition. Technical and manufacturing difficulties experienced in the introduction of new products could be costly and could adversely affect our customer relationships. The markets in which our customers and we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and services. Consequently, our success depends upon our ability to anticipate future technology trends and customer needs, to develop new systems and processes that meet industry standards and customer requirements and that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance. Our development of new products involves significant risk, since the products are very complex and the development cycle is long and expensive. The success of any new system we develop and introduce is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to correctly predict customer requirements for new processes, to assess and select the potential technologies for research and development and to timely complete new system designs that are acceptable to the market. We may make substantial investments in new technologies before we can know whether they are technically or commercially feasible or advantageous, and without any assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the associated development costs. Not all development activities result in commercially viable products. We may not be able to improve our existing systems or develop new technologies or systems in a timely manner. We may exceed the budgeted cost of reaching our research, development and engineering objectives, and planned product development schedules may require extension. Any delays or additional development costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products are complex, and we may experience technical or manufacturing inefficiencies, delays or difficulties in the prototype introduction of new systems and enhancements, or in achieving volume production of new systems or enhancements that meet customer requirements. Our inability, or the inability of our supply chain partners, to overcome such difficulties, to meet the technical specifications of any new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in the required volume and in a timely manner would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as our customer relationships. Our revenue recognition policies require that during the initial evaluation phase of a new product, customer acceptance needs to be obtained before we can recognize revenue on the product. Customer acceptance may not be completed in a timely manner for a variety of reasons, whether or not related to the quality and performance of our products. Any delays in customer acceptance may result in revenue recognition delays and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may from time to time incur unanticipated costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our products early in their life cycles, and such costs can be substantial. If we encounter reliability or quality problems with our new products or enhancements, we could face a number of difficulties, including reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collection of accounts receivable and additional service and warranty expenses, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The costs associated with our warranties may be significant, and in the event our projections and estimates of these costs are inaccurate, our financial performance could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we experience product failures at an unexpectedly high level, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, and our business would suffer. Significant fluctuations in our operating results are difficult to predict due to our lengthy sales cycle, and our results may fall short of anticipated levels, which could cause our stock price to decline. 11Sales of our systems depend upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase or replace manufacturing capacity, typically involving a significant capital commitment. Accordingly, the decision to purchase our systems requires time-consuming internal procedures associated with the evaluation, testing, implementation and introduction of new technologies into our customers' manufacturing facilities. Even after the customer determines that our systems meet their qualification criteria, we may experience delays finalizing system sales while the customer obtains approval for the purchase, constructs new facilities or expands its existing facilities. Consequently, the time between our first contact with a customer regarding a specific potential purchase and the customer's placing its first order may last from one to two years or longer. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses during this evaluation period, in addition to tying up substantial inventory in customer product evaluations. The length of this period makes it difficult to accurately forecast future sales. Also, any unexpected delays in orders could impact our revenue and operating results. If sales forecast for a specific customer are not realized, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in net sales, and our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period.Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future, which makes it very difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We incurred significant net losses between 2001 and 2003, yet were profitable for each of the years 2004 to 2007. We incurred net losses again between 2008 and 2012, due to declining demand as a result of the weakness in the semiconductor equipment market and the global economy. We may not achieve profitability in future years. We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitability, and we may not be able to do so. A substantial percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and we may continue to be unable to adjust spending to compensate for shortfalls in net sales. As a result, we may continue to incur losses, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further or remain at a low level for an extended period of time. We are highly dependent on international sales, and face significant international business risks. International sales accounted for 86 percent of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 94 percent of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. We anticipate international sales will continue to account for the vast majority of our future net sales. Asia has been a particularly important region for our business, and we anticipate that it will continue to be important going forward. Our sales to customers located in Asia accounted for 78 percent of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 84 percent of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Because of our continuing dependence upon international sales, we are subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities, including: •burdensome governmental controls, laws, regulations, tariffs, duties, taxes, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; •unexpected changes in laws or regulations prompted by economic stress, such as protectionism, and other attempts to rectify real or perceived international trade imbalances; •exchange rate volatility; •the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. customs and export laws; •political and economic instability; •government-sponsored competition; •differing labor regulations; •reduced protection for, and increased misappropriation of, intellectual property; •difficulties in accounts receivable collections; •increased costs for product shipments and potential difficulties from shipment delays; •difficulties in managing distributors, representatives, contract manufacturers and suppliers; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; and •natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, widespread illness or other catastrophes affecting foreign countries. 12Our sales to date have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars; however future sales to Asian customers may be denominated in the customer's local currency. Our sales in foreign currencies are subject to risks of currency fluctuation. For U.S. dollar sales in foreign countries, our products may become less price competitive when the local currency is declining in value compared to the dollar. This could cause us to lose sales or force us to lower our prices, which would reduce our gross margins. The weakness in the global economy may continue to negatively impact our financial performance.The recessionary conditions of 2008 and 2009 in the global economy and the slowdown in the semiconductor industry impacted customer demand for our products and correspondingly, negatively impacted our financial performance. There remains high unemployment in developed countries, concerns regarding the availability of credit, uncertainty about a sustained economic recovery in the U.S. and fears of further economic deterioration in Europe, China, and the developing world, which in turn, may lead to a global downturn. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our business, or our financial condition. Demand for semiconductor equipment depends on consumer spending. Continued economic uncertainty may lead to a decrease in consumer spending and may cause certain of our customers to cancel or delay orders. In addition, if our customers have difficulties obtaining capital or financing, this could result in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues could lead to charges to our bad debt expense, if we are unable to collect accounts receivables. These conditions could also affect our key suppliers, which could affect their ability to supply parts to us, and result in delays of the completion of our systems and the shipment of these systems to our customers. Because of the economic downturn and the uncertainty of a full recovery, we are taking, and may have to take additional, actions to reduce costs. These actions have reduced, and could further reduce, our ability to invest in research and development at levels we believe are desirable. If we are unable to effectively align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, we will experience additional losses and additional reductions in our cash and cash equivalents. If we are not able to suitably adapt to these economic conditions in a timely manner or at all, our performance, cash flows, results of operations and ability to access capital could be materially and adversely impacted. We are exposed to various risks relating to compliance with the regulatory environment, including export control laws and material contracts provisions, and non-compliance or non-performance with any of these items could result in adverse consequences and monetary fines or damages. We are subject to various risks related to (1) disagreements and disputes between national and regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; (2) new, inconsistent and conflicting rules by regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate; and (3) interpretation and application of different laws and regulations. If we are found by a court or regulatory agency to not be in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S. these laws include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) administered by the State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The EAR governs products, parts, technology and software which present military or weapons proliferation concerns, so-called “dual use” items, and ITAR governs military items listed on the United States Munitions List. Prior to shipping certain items, we must obtain an export license or verify that license exemptions are available. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements related to documentation, record keeping, plant visits and hiring of foreign nationals. Any failures to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, and repeat failures could carry more significant penalties. In 2008, we self-disclosed to BIS certain inadvertent EAR violations, and in April 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with BIS that resolved in full all matters contained in our voluntary self-disclosure. Under the settlement, we agreed to a civil penalty of $850,000 of which we paid $250,000 in May 2012 and $600,000 is suspended for the one-year ending in May 2013and will be waived provided that no violations occur during that one-year period. We are a party to governmental contracts that provide for liquidated damages in the event that we fail to comply with their covenants or requirements. These liquidated damage payments could be significant and may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 13Because of competition for qualified personnel, we may not be able to recruit or retain necessary personnel, which could impede development or sales of our products. Our growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. Our ability to attract employees may be harmed by our recent financial losses, which has impacted our available cash and our ability to provide performance-based annual cash incentives. Also, part of our total compensation program includes share-based compensation. Share-based compensation is an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If the market price of our common shares declines or remains low, it may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain employees. During periods of growth in the semiconductor industry, there is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. In particular, we must attract and retain highly skilled design and process engineers. If we are unable to retain existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may from time to time experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and market our products and perform services for our customers. As a result, our growth could be limited, we could fail to meet our delivery commitments or we could experience deterioration in service levels or decreases in customer satisfaction. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which may lead to losses by investors, delisting, securities litigation or hostile or otherwise unfavorable takeover offers. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile in the past, and our stock price may decline in the future. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2012, the closing price range for our common stock was between $0.73 and $3.19 per share. Our stock may be subject to eventual delisting from NASDAQ if we do not maintain a minimum $1.00 per share trading price. In late 2012, we received a warning letter from NASDAQ as a result of our stock trading below $1.00 for a sustained period of time. While our stock price recovered to trade above $1.00 for the period from x date to y date, any future decline below $1.00 per share may trigger a possible delisting by NASDAQ, and any delisting from NASDAQ would likely lead to less liquidity for our shareholders and increased volatility in our stock price. The relatively low stock price makes us attractive to hedge funds and other short-term investors. This could result in substantial stock price volatility and cause fluctuations in trading volumes for our stock. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may harm the value of your investment in our common stock. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, has experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations have frequently been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in its stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. Our stock price has been below the five-year peak of $8.39 for several years, and if net sales do not return to the peak 2007 levels or we do not return to profitability in the near term, we could be an attractive target for acquisition or be impacted by mergers and acquisitions by our competitors or other consolidation in the industry. An acquisition or merger could be hostile or on terms unfavorable to us, and may result in substantial costs and potential disruption to our business. Other factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include changes in securities analysts' recommendations, short selling, and halting or suspension of trading in our common stock by NASDAQ.We are subject to significant risks related to our operations. We may outsource select manufacturing activities to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions and quality of our products. From time to time, we may outsource product manufacturing to third-party service providers. Outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. 14We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for some components and sub-assemblies, and supply shortages or the loss of these suppliers could result in increased cost or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products. We rely, to a substantial extent, on outside vendors to provide many of the components and sub-assemblies of our systems. We obtain some of these components and sub-assemblies from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. We generally acquire these components on a purchase order basis and not under long-term supply contracts. Because of our reliance on these vendors and suppliers, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components. When demand for semiconductor equipment is strong, our suppliers may have difficulty providing components on a timely basis. In addition, during periods of shortages of components, we may have reduced control over pricing and timely delivery of components. We often quote prices to our customers and accept customer orders for our products prior to purchasing components and sub-assemblies from our suppliers. If our suppliers increase the cost of components or sub-assemblies, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may no longer be able to increase the cost of the system being evaluated by our customers to cover all or part of the increased cost of components. The manufacture of some of these components is an extremely complex process and requires long lead times. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required components, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. This could delay our ability to manufacture or ship our systems in a timely manner, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and harm our reputation. Historically, we have not experienced any significant delays in manufacturing due to an inability to obtain components, and we are not currently aware of any specific problems regarding the availability of components that might significantly delay the manufacturing of our systems in the future. Any inability to obtain adequate deliveries, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally, could delay our ability to ship our systems and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our gross margins may be impacted if we do not effectively manage our inventory. We need to manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process and finished goods (principally comprised of products undergoing customer evaluations) effectively to meet customer delivery demands at an acceptable risk and cost. For both the inventories that support manufacture of our products and our spare parts inventories, if the anticipated customer demand does not materialize in a timely manner, we will incur increased carrying costs and some inventory could become excess or obsolete, resulting in write-offs, which would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. The sale of this inventory during periods of increasing revenue could temporarily impact our gross margins favorably due to the adjusted carrying value of this inventory, and could result in future unpredictability in our gross margin estimates. Our gross margins for sales of products that we manufacture in Germany may fluctuate due to changes in the value of the Euro. We develop and manufacture our Millios product in Germany, where our costs for labor and materials are primarily denominated in Euros. Future increases in the value of the Euro, if any, could increase our development costs, our costs to manufacture systems, and our costs to purchase spare parts for products from our suppliers, which would make it more difficult for us to compete and could adversely affect our results of operations. We primarily manufacture our products at one manufacturing facility and are thus subject to risk of disruption. Although, from time to time, we outsource select core product manufacturing to third parties, we continue to produce our latest generation products at our principal manufacturing plant in Fremont, California and produce our Millios product at our research and pilot-line manufacturing facility in Dornstadt, Germany. We have limited ability to interchangeably produce our products at either facility, and in the event of a disruption of operations at one facility, our other facility may not be able to make up the capacity loss. Our operations could be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, including earthquakes in California, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and seriously harm our business. We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer major financial losses. We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain other risks are uninsurable or are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. An earthquake could significantly 15disrupt our principal manufacturing operations in Fremont, California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and development efforts on new products, a significant portion of which is conducted in California. We self-insure earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on the high cost and limited coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. If a major earthquake were to occur, we could suffer a major financial loss and face significant disruption in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets and experience reduced market share. Efforts to protect our intellectual property may be costly to resolve, require costly litigation and could divert management attention. We also agree to indemnify customers for certain claims, and such obligations are more likely to increase during downturns. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties' patents or other proprietary rights. If this occurs, we may not be able to prevent their use of such technology. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any patents owned by us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and any rights granted under any patent may not provide adequate protection to us. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient resources to protect our rights. When we outsource portions of our manufacturing, we are less able to protect our intellectual property, and rely more on our service providers to do so. Our service providers may not always be able to assure that their employees or former employees do not use our intellectual property for their own account to compete with us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, or design around patents that may be issued to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may be more difficult to monitor the use of our intellectual property in such foreign countries. As a result of these threats to our proprietary technology, we may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Customers may request that we indemnify them or otherwise compensate them because of claims of intellectual property infringement made against them by third parties. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets, even if the claims are without merit, could be very expensive to defend and could divert the attention of our management. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek costly licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results in one or more countries where we do business. In the normal course of business, we indemnify customers with respect to certain matters, for example if our tool infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party or if we breach any promise in our contract with the customer. During downturns in general or adverse industry specific economic conditions, our customers may feel they have greater leverage in negotiating with us and may require that the extent and scope of our obligation to indemnify them be expanded. In the future, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any claims raised under customer indemnification provisions in our contract. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety regulations could result in substantial liability. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations relating to environmental protection and workplace safety. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development and sales demonstrations, as well as governmental standards for workplace safety. If we fail to comply with present or future regulations, especially in our manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and Germany, we could be subject to substantial liability for cleanup efforts, personal injury, fines or suspension or cessation of our operations. We may be subject to liability if we have past violations. Restrictions on our ability to expand or continue to operate at our present locations could be imposed upon us as a result of such laws, rules and regulations, and we could be required to acquire costly remediation equipment or incur other significant expenses. Any future business divestitures or acquisitions may disrupt our business, diminish stockholder value or distract management attention. We may seek to divest of certain assets or businesses from time to time, especially if we need additional liquidity or capital resources. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to 16incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to our own. Such acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results and/or the price of our common stock. Acquisitions also entail numerous risks, including: •difficulty assimilating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and possible impairments caused by this; •potential disruption of our ongoing business; •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; •inability of management to manage the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products, services and technologies; •inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; and •impairment of relationships with employees and customers that may occur as a result of integration of the acquired business. To the extent that shares of our stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any future acquisitions, dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and our earnings per share may suffer. We may be required to incur debt to pay for any future acquisitions, which could subject us to restrictive financial covenants and other leverage limitations. Any future acquisitions may not generate additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business, and we may not achieve a satisfactory return on our investment in any acquired businesses. Divestitures, acquisitions and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our current transfer of operations and periodic restructuring plans may not produce anticipated benefits and may lead to charges that will adversely affect our results of operations. We initiated a plan in the third quarter of 2012 to consolidate our global manufacturing operations, including the transfer of manufacturing operations from our Germany facility to our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California. This transfer plan may not be achieved in a timely and efficient manner, and may not fully realize the anticipated cost savings and synergies for a variety of reasons. Some of the risks related to this transfer include failure to obtain expected cost savings due to cost overruns in connection with the move or after operations commence; failure to consolidate our German manufacturing operations into our existing Fremont manufacturing operations; and employment and other law, rules, regulations or other limitations that could have an impact on timing, amounts or costs of achieving expected synergies.In addition, we have from time to time enacted, and are currently implementing, restructuring and other cost reduction plans designed to reduce our manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses. These restructuring efforts resulted or may result in significant restructuring charges that have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations for the periods in which such charges occur. Additionally, actual costs related to such restructuring plans have in the past, and may in the future, exceed the amounts that we previously estimated, leading to additional charges as actual costs are incurred. We expect to incur an additional $2 million to $3 million in restructuring charges, mainly in the first quarter of 2013, related to our 2011 Restructuring Plan. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results.We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting 17from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We may be required to record additional impairment charges that will adversely impact our results of operations. We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. The resulting assessment may lead to a material decline in our market valuation and projected net sales, causing a decrease in the anticipated future cash flows attributable to these assets relative to the cash flow expectations when the assets were acquired. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment of our long-lived assets exists for any reason, we would record additional impairment charges in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Pursuant to such provisions: •our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; •our board of directors is staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; •stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; •nominations for election to our board of directors and the submission of matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting are subject to advance notice requirements; •certain provisions in our bylaws and certificate of incorporation such as notice to stockholders, the ability to call a stockholder meeting, advance notice requirements and action of stockholders by written consent may only be amended with the approval of stockholders holding 66 2/3 percent of our outstanding voting stock; •the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders is prohibited; and •subject to certain exceptions requiring stockholder approval, our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. In addition, the provisions in our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a potential acquiror to consummate an acquisition of our company. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in any “business combination” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.18