Item 1A. Risk Factors We expect to be subject to restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders to be issued by the Office of Thrift Supervision. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the expected Cease and Desist Orders. Failure to comply with the expected Cease and Desist Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties. As a result of various regulatory concerns, the OTS has advised the Company and the Bank that it will issue Cease and Desist Orders. We have received drafts of the Cease and Desist Orders, and we expect that the orders will contain a number of significant directives. For a description of the anticipated terms of these orders, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Expected Cease and Desist Orders.” If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the expected Cease and Desist Orders, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties as well as further operating restrictions. The OTS could also direct us to seek a merger partner. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the expected Cease and Desist Orders, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the orders. Although we do not expect it, it is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the expected Cease and Desist Orders could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. In addition, the OTS must approve any deviation from our business plan, which could limit our ability to make any changes to our business, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. While we believe that we will be able to take actions that will result in the expected Cease and Desist Orders being terminated in the future, such actions may not result in the OTS’ terminating the expected Cease and Desist Orders. Further, the imposition of the expected Cease and Desist Orders may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. Our capital levels currently are not sufficient to achieve compliance with the higher capital requirements we must meet by December 31, 2009. The OTS has directed the Bank to raise its tier one core capital and total risk-based capital ratios to 8% and 12%, respectively, by December 31, 2009. At June 30, 2009, we did not meet these requirements and would have needed approximately $13.4 million in additional capital based on assets at such date to meet these requirements. The Company currently does not have any capital available to invest in the Bank. We are considering various strategies to help us achieve these capital levels by December 31, 2009, but there is no assurance that any capital raising strategy can be completed successfully by that date. Moreover, any further increases to our allowance for loan losses and operating losses would require negatively impact our capital levels and make it more difficult to achieve the capital levels directed by the OTS. If we fail to meet the required capital levels by December 31, 2009, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of monetary penalties, as well as further operating restrictions. The OTS also could also direct us to seek a merger partner or to liquidate the Bank. We are subject to growth and operating restrictions imposed by the OTS. These conditions could impede our ability to operate our business. The Company and the Bank have been notified by the OTS, their primary regulator, that as a result of the OTS’s assessment of the Company’s and the Bank’s financial condition, the Company and the Bank are subject to specified operating restrictions. These operating restrictions provide that: (1) the Bank must limit its quarterly asset growth to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the quarter (unless additional asset growth is permitted by the OTS); (2) the Bank and the Company must obtain OTS approval prior to appointing any new director or senior executive officer; (3) the Bank and the Company must obtain regulatory approval prior to making certain severance and indemnification payments; (4) the Bank must receive OTS approval of any new, renewed or amended arrangements providing compensation or benefits to its directors and senior executive officers; (5) the Bank must obtain OTS approval of all third-party contracts that are significant to the operation or financial condition of the Bank or that are outside the normal course of business; (6) the Bank must provide the OTS with advance notice of all proposed transactions with affiliates; and (7) the Bank may not pay dividends or make any other capital distribution, including repurchase or redemption of capital stock, without the prior approval of the OTS. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our business. 27 Table of Contents We have a relatively high percentage of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2009, our non-performing loans totalled $70.5 million, representing 8.9% of total loans and 7.7% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totalled $102.4 million, representing 14.6% of total loans and 11.2% of total assets. At June 30, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $16.5 million, representing 23.4% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. In addition, the OTS periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OTS would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s longer-term loans) have not. Although this “flattening” of the market yield curve has not had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term interest rates decline and if rates on our loans and investments reprice downward faster than our rates on deposits, then we would also experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On June 17, 2009, President Obama published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the reform plan, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Although the reform plan does not specify how existing federal thrifts, such as the Bank, would be treated, we expect that if the federal thrift charter is eliminated Park View Federal could become a national bank or adopt a state charter. Registration as a 28 Table of Contents bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The reform plan also proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President’s reform plan has not been introduced, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to increase loans and deposits. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Park View Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. The Company also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Company common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Our emphasis on construction and commercial real estate lending and land loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2009, we had $192.1 million in loans secured by commercial real estate, $64.8 million in real estate construction loans, which included $39.2 million in residential construction loans, $5.2 million in loans for the construction of multi-family properties and $20.4 million for the construction of commercial properties and $60.9 million in loans secured by land. Commercial real estate loans, construction loans and land loans represented 28.7%, 9.7% and 9.1%, respectively, of our net loan portfolio. While commercial real estate, construction and land loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. 29 Table of Contents The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependant on the economy in the Bank’s market area. The Bank’s market area consists of Portage, Lake, Geauga, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina and Lorain Counties in Ohio. As of June 30, 2009, management estimates that more than 90% of deposits and 90% of loans came from its market area. Because of the Bank’s concentration of business activities in its market area, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in its market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Ohio could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage nonnegotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company’s equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional shares of Common Stock up to a total of 15,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, Ohio law provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of the Company, and federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaw and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in the Company’s and the Bank’s employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. 30 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, which would dilute your ownership if you did not, or were not permitted to, invest in the additional issuances. The Bank has been directed by the OTS to raise its tier one core capital and total risk-based capital ratios to 8% and 12%, respectively, by December 31, 2009, and the Bank Order expected to be entered into provides for a similar requirement. Had the Bank been required to meet these capital requirements at June 30, 2009, it would have needed additional capital of approximately $13.4 million. To meet these capital requirements and for other purposes, we expect to seek to raise capital through one or more offerings of our common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities convertible into common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock during the quarter ending December 31, 2009, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful. This statement does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, make available additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without further action by the shareholders, except where shareholder approval is required by law or The Nasdaq Capital Market requirements. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock, preferred stock, or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, our shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of our common stock and as a result will be diluted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 31 Table of Contents 