Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to restrictions and conditions of Company and Bank Orders issued by the OTS. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Company and Bank Orders. Failure to comply with the Company and Bank Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us. The Company and Bank Orders contain a number of significant directives, including higher capital requirements, requirements to reduce the level of our classified and criticized assets, growth and operating restrictions, restrictions on brokered deposits, and restrictions on dividend payments. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our own business and to effectively compete in our markets. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the Company and Bank Orders, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions, directing us to seek a merger partner or to liquidate Park View Federal. On March 26, 2010, we completed a rights offering and an offering to a standby investor. Stockholders exercised subscription rights to purchase all 14,706,247 shares offered at a subscription price of $1.75 per share. Additionally, the standby investor purchased 2,436,610 shares at the subscription price of $1.75 per share. In total, we raised gross proceeds of $30.0 million. Upon completion of the offering, we contributed $20.0 million of the offering proceeds to Park View Federal to improve its regulatory capital position. The resulting regulatory capital ratios of Park View Federal now exceed the capital requirements 32 Table of Contents of the Bank Order. As such, we believe we has complied with all requirements of the Company and Bank Orders that are required to date and will continue to work to comply with all such requirements in the future, although we may not be able to meet the reduced adversely classified asset levels by December 31, 2010. However, we have also submitted to the OTS our business plan, capital plan and reduction targets for our adversely classified assets. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Company and Bank Orders, and we will incur ongoing expenses attributable to compliance with the terms of the orders. It is possible regulatory compliance expenses related to the Company and Bank Orders could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. The OTS must approve any deviation from our business plan, which could limit our ability to make any changes to our business, which could negatively impact the scope and flexibility of our business activities. Further, the imposition of the Company and Bank Orders, including certain restrictions on severance and indemnification payments and employment and compensation arrangements, may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. While we plan to take appropriate actions and intend to seek to have the Company and Bank Orders terminated in the future, such actions may not result in the OTS terminating such orders. We are subject to growth and operating restrictions imposed by the OTS. These conditions could impede our ability to operate our business. Pursuant to the terms of the Company and Bank Orders, we are subject to specified operating restrictions. These operating restrictions provide that: (i) Park View Federal must limit its quarterly asset growth to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the quarter (unless additional asset growth is permitted by the OTS); (ii) the Bank and the Company must obtain OTS approval prior to appointing any new director or senior executive officer; (iii) the PVF and Park View Federal must obtain regulatory approval prior to making certain severance and indemnification payments; (iv) Park View Federal must receive OTS approval of any new, renewed or amended arrangements providing compensation or benefits to its directors and senior executive officers; (v) Park View Federal must obtain OTS approval of all third-party contracts that are significant to the operation or financial condition of the Bank or that are outside the normal course of business; (6) Park View Federal must provide the OTS with advance notice of all proposed transactions with affiliates; and (vii) Park View Federal may not pay dividends or make any other capital distribution, including repurchase or redemption of capital stock, without the prior approval of the OTS. These restrictions may impede our ability to operate our business. We have a relatively high percentage of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2010, our non-performing loans totalled $69.1 million, representing 11.14% of total loans and 8.18% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totalled $87.6 million, which includes the nonperforming loans previously mentioned, representing 14.13% of total loans and 8.18% of total assets. At June 30, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $31.5 million, representing 45.62% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in 33 Table of Contents additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. The OTS has directed Park View Federal to reduce the level of adversely classified assets to no more than 50% of core capital plus allowance for loan and lease losses by December 31, 2010 and to reduce the level of adversely classified assets and assets designated as special mention to no more than 65% of core capital plus allowance for loan and lease losses by December 31, 2010. At June 30, 2010, Park View Federal did not meet these requirements and its levels of adversely classified assets and adversely classified assets designated as special mention to core capital plus allowance for loan and lease losses were 89.7% and 118.1%, respectively. We may not achieve compliance with these classified asset ratios prior to December 31, 2010. Although we have submitted to the OTS our business plan, capital plan and reduction targets for our adversely classified assets, if we fail to meet the required classified asset ratios by December 31, 2010, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. In addition, the OTS periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OTS would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. While short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price Park View Federal’s deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s longer-term loans) have not. Although this “flattening” of the market yield curve has not had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term interest rates decline and if rates on our loans and investments reprice downward faster than our rates on deposits, then we would also experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Park View Federal’s interest-earning assets and, in particular, the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions, including depository institutions. Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion, many of the details of the new law and the effects they will have on us will not be known for months or even years. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act apply directly only to institutions much larger than us, and some will affect only institutions with different charters than Park View Federal or institutions that engage in activities in which we do not engage. Among the changes to occur pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that can be expected to have an effect on us are the following: • The OTS will be merged into the OCC and the authority of the other remaining bank regulatory agencies restructured; 34 Table of Contents • A new independent consumer financial protection bureau will be established within the Federal Reserve Board, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws; • New capital regulations for thrift holding companies will be adopted and any new trust preferred securities will no longer count toward Tier 1 capital; • The current prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits will be repealed, effective July 21, 2011; • The standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer is permanently increased to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through January 1, 2013; • The deposit insurance assessment base calculation will be expanded to equal a depository institution’s total assets minus the sum of its average tangible equity during the assessment period. • New corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries will required new compensation practices, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, to provide stockholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation , to consider the independence of compensation advisors and new executive compensation disclosure requirements. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. PVF is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank on PVF and Park View Federal cannot be determined yet, the law is likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on Park View Federal’s and PVF’s operations. Strong competition within Park View Federal’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. Park View Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for Park View Federal to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in Park View Federal earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to increase loans and deposits. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which Park View Federal competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that Park View Federal does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Park View Federal’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Park View Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, its primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. PVF also is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the OTS and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and 35 Table of Contents oversight, including those to be enacted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Our emphasis on construction and commercial real estate lending and land loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2010, we had $211.7 million in loans secured by commercial real estate, $23.0 million in real estate construction loans, which included $14.4 million in residential construction loans, $3.3 million in loans for the construction of multi-family properties and $5.3 million for the construction of commercial properties and $51.8 million in loans secured by land. Commercial real estate loans, construction loans and land loans represented 34.1%, 3.7% and 8.4%, respectively, of our loan portfolio. While commercial real estate, construction and land loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy in our market area. Our market area consists of Portage, Lake, Geauga, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina and Lorain Counties in Ohio. As of June 30, 2010, management estimates that more than 90% of deposits and generally all of loans came from our market area. Because of our concentration of business activities in our market area, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in our market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than larger institutions to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas when and if they do occur. Provisions in our First Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Code of Regulations, our Amended and Restated Bylaws. and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. Provisions in our First Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”), Amended and Restated Code of Regulations (the “Regulations”) and the Amended and Restated Bylaws (the “Bylaws”) contain certain provisions that could discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: (i) the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; (ii) supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; (iii) elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; (iv) certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and (v) provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Articles requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of our equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Articles also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of 36 Table of Contents preferred stock as well as additional shares of common stock up to a total of 65,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, Ohio law provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of PVF, and federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Articles, Regulations, Bylaws and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in our employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 