Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business could be impacted by any of the risks noted below, although such risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Economic and Market Conditions Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Beginning in the latter half of 2007, the U.S. and global financial markets experienced severe disruption and volatility, with business activity across a wide range of industries and regions greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to show improvement in recent months, certain sectors of the U.S. economy, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment rates, specifically in Ohio, remain high. Local governments and many businesses still face serious difficulties due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. 29 Table of Contents Market conditions encountered under the current economic cycle have also led to the failure and merger of a number of financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization levels and of the DIF, which has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions and pervasive regulatory modifications. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may result in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers, including those involving commercial real estate, to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. Overall, while economic and market conditions have improved in the U.S. and in our primary geographic market, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, the money supply, and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Park View Federal’s interest-earning assets and, in particular, the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy in our market area. Our market area consists of Portage, Lake, Geauga, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina and Lorain Counties in Ohio. As of June 30, 2013, management estimates that more than 90% of our deposits and the majority of loans came from our market area. Because of our concentration of business activities in our market area, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in our market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than larger institutions to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas when and if they do occur. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have an elevated level of non-performing loans and classified assets relative to our total assets. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover our actual loan losses, our ability to remain profitable will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2013, our non-performing loans totaled $13.2 million, representing 2.41% of total loans and 1.70% of total assets. In addition, loans which management has classified as either substandard, doubtful or loss totaled $24.1 million, which includes the non-performing loans previously mentioned, representing 4.38% of total loans and 3.10% of total assets. At June 30, 2013, our allowance for loan losses was $13.9 million, representing 105.30% of non-performing loans. In the event our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income. In addition, the OCC periodically reviews our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OCC would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Strong competition within Park View Federal’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. Park View Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for Park View Federal to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in Park View Federal earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to increase loans and deposits. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which Park View Federal competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that Park View Federal does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Park View Federal’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. Our past emphasis on construction and commercial real estate lending and land loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2013, we had $205.7 million in loans secured by commercial real estate, $16.0 million in real estate construction loans, which included $2.9 million in residential construction loans, $2.0 million in loans for the construction of multi-family properties and $11.1 million for the construction of commercial properties and $21.4 million in loans secured by land. Commercial real estate loans, construction loans and land loans represented 38.4%, 3.0% and 4.0%, respectively, of our loan portfolio. While commercial real estate, construction and land loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. 31 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual future losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover current, incurred loan losses. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-repayment, and we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which will require additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to access capital when needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain specified levels of capital. The financial institutions regulatory agencies are contemplating increased capital requirements. Should we experience significant loan losses, we may need additional capital. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business, to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other purposes. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance, therefore, that we can raise additional capital at all or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or desired, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Material breaches in security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. We collect, process and store sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. We have security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. We also have implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. Security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. Provisions in our First Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Code of Regulations, and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. Provisions in our First Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”) and Amended and Restated Code of Regulations (the “Regulations”) contain certain provisions that could discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts that certain shareholders might deem to be in their interests or through which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: (i) the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; (ii) supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; (iii) elimination of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; (iv) certain provisions relating to meetings of shareholders; and (v) provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Articles requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of our equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Articles also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional common shares up to a total of 65,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without shareholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. 32 Table of Contents In addition, Ohio law provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of PVF, and federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Articles, Regulations, Bylaws and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in our employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which shareholders otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. Trading in our common shares is limited, which may adversely affect the time and the price at which you can sell your PVF common shares. Although the common shares of PVF are quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in PVF’s common shares is not active, and the spread between the bid and the asked price may be significant. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. The price at which you may be able to sell your common shares may be significantly lower than the price at which you could buy PVF common shares at that time. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with F.N.B. Corporation The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by F.N.B. Corporation could have a negative impact on our business. On February 19, 2013, we entered into the Merger Agreement with F.N.B. Corporation pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions contained in the Merger Agreement, PVF Capital will merge with and into FNB Corporation, and FNB Corporation will be the surviving corporation of the Merger. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Company’s shareholders will receive 0.3405 shares (the “Exchange Ratio”) of FNB common stock for each share of the Company’s common stock they own. In addition, all unexercised warrants remaining at the time of closing will be settled in cash based on the average closing price of FNB’s common shares for a specific 20 day trading period. The Merger Agreement also provides that all options to purchase the Company’s stock which are outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the closing shall be converted into fully vested and exercisable options to purchase shares of FNB common stock, based upon the Exchange Ratio. The announcement and pendency of the Merger may have a negative impact on our business, financial results and operations or disrupt our business by: • intensifying existing litigation or increasing new legal claims from purported shareholders challenging the Merger Agreement; • intensifying competition as our competitors may seek opportunities related to our pending Merger; • affecting our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees; • limiting certain of our business operations prior to completion of the Merger which may prevent us from pursuing certain opportunities without F.N.B. Corporation’s approval; • causing us to forego certain opportunities we might otherwise pursue absent the Merger Agreement; • impairing our ability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about their future roles and relationships with F.N.B. Corporation following the completion of the Merger; and • creating distractions from our strategy and day-to-day operations for our employees and management and a strain on resources. The failure to complete the Merger with FNB Corporation could negatively impact our business. There is no assurance that the Merger with FNB Corporation or any other transaction will occur or that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Further, there is no assurance that any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement will not occur. If the proposed Merger or a similar transaction is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, under circumstances defined in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of 33 Table of Contents up to approximately $4.0 million. Certain costs associated with the Merger are already incurred or may be payable even if the Merger is not completed. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees or recruiting and retention efforts, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be negatively impacted, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the Merger, if the Merger is not consummated. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Such policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. PVF and Park View Federal are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking authorities. Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act transferred the regulatory responsibilities and authority over federal savings associations and savings and loan holding companies from the OTS to the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board, respectively. Park View Federal has also been and continues to be subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC, which insures the Bank’s savings deposits up to applicable limits. The regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities, as evidenced by the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Substantial regulatory and legislation initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the financial regulatory system in the United States, could materially affect our business, and the nature and scope of future major changes and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form newly proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which savings institutions and their holding companies, including us and Park View Federal, do business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act significantly altered the regulation of federal savings associations and savings and loan holding companies by transferring the authority and responsibilities of the OTS with respect to savings associations to the OCC. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance premiums by modifying the deposit insurance assessment base calculation to equal a depository institution’s consolidated assets less tangible capital and permanently increases the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The unlimited deposit insurance on non-interest bearing transaction accounts expired December 31, 2012 and now is limited to deposit insurance of $250,000 per customer. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a new agency, which is empowered to promulgate new and revise existing consumer protection regulations which may limit certain consumer fees or 34 Table of Contents otherwise significantly change fee practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also repealed the federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. Other significant changes from provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, but are not limited to: (i) changes to rules relating to debit card interchange fees; (ii) new comprehensive regulation of the over-the counter derivatives market; (iii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies; (iv) restrictions on the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds; and (v) the implementation of a number of new corporate governance provisions, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, new executive compensation disclosure requirements and considerations regarding the independence of compensation advisors. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been implemented and will require interpretation and additional rule making by federal regulators. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on us cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our operations, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising from certain industry deficiencies in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process, as well as potentially impacted by losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Park View Federal primarily conducts loan sale and securitization activity with Freddie Mac, and to a lesser degree Fannie Mae, and acts as seller and servicer of these mortgage loans. In connection with these and other securitization transactions, Park View Federal makes certain representations and warranties that the loans meet certain criteria, such as collateral type and underwriting standards. Park View Federal may be required to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify these organizations against losses due to material breaches of these representations and warranties. During fiscal 2012, PVF evaluated its foreclosure documentation procedures, given the recent announcements made by other financial institutions regarding their foreclosure activities. The results of PVF’s review indicate that its procedures for reviewing and validating the information in its documentation are sound and its foreclosure affidavits are accurate. PVF has implemented additional reviews of pending foreclosures to ensure that all appropriate actions are taken to enable foreclosure actions to continue. Although PVF believes that its mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate, it is possible that the Company may receive repurchase requests in the future and PVF may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. In addition, PVF could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and PVF’s financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. PVF undertakes no obligation and disclaims any intention to publish revised information or updates to forward-looking statements contained in the above risk factors or in any other statement made at any time by any director, officer, employee or other representative of the Company unless and until any such revisions or updates are required to be disclosed by applicable securities laws or regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 35 Table of Contents 