Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s longer-term loans) have not. Although this “flattening” of the market yield curve has not had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience 25 Table of Contents compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term interest rates decline and if rates on our loans and investments reprice downward faster than our rates on deposits, then we would also experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to increase loans and deposits. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Park View Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. The Company also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Company common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Our emphasis on construction and commercial real estate lending and land loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2008, we had $211.3 million in loans secured by commercial real estate, $99.5 million in real estate construction loans, which included $55.4 million in residential construction loans, $5.8 million in loans for the construction of multi-family properties and $38.3 million for the construction of commercial properties and $73.5 million in loans secured by land. Commercial real estate loans, construction loans and land loans represented 29.6%, 13.9% and 10.3%, respectively, of our net loan portfolio. While commercial real estate, construction and land loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependant on the economy in the Bank’s market area. The Bank’s market area consists of Portage, Lake, Geauga, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina and Lorain Counties in Ohio. As of June 30, 2008, management estimates that more than 90% of deposits and 90% of loans 26 Table of Contents came from its market area. Because of the Bank’s concentration of business activities in its market area, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in its market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Ohio could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage nonnegotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company’s equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional shares of Common Stock up to a total of 15,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, Ohio law provides for certain restrictions an acquisition of the Company, and federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaw and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in the Company’s and the Bank’s employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Company may have to record a charge to earnings representing other-than-temporary impairment with respect to its holdings of U.S. government-sponsored enterprise preferred stock. The Company holds U.S. government-sponsored enterprise securities consisting of floating rate preferred stock issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”) in its available-for-sale securities portfolio which, at June 30, 2008, had a cost basis of $1,890,000 and a market value of $1,890,000. The Company’s equity securities consist of floating rate preferred stock issued by FHLMC and FNMA. For the year ended June 30, 2008, the Company recognized a $195,000 pre-tax charge for the other-than-temporary decline in fair value. As required by SFAS 115, when a decline in fair value below cost is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the unrealized loss must be recognized as a charge to earnings. The Company’s holding of this preferred stock has declined substantially in value since the June 30, 2008 balance sheet date. Management evaluated this decline in value and decided its initial determination that the Company’s holdings were only temporarily impaired should be reassessed. Ultimately, the Company’s holdings of these shares were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2008 and a charge to earnings of $195,000 was recorded as of that date. 27 Table of Contents More recently, on September 7, 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency announced that it was placing FHLMC and FNMA under conservatorship. The United States Department of the Treasury is also taking other actions with respect to FHLMC and FNMA, including purchasing preferred stock that would have a rank senior to that of the preferred stock owned by the Company. In addition, the payments of dividends on the preferred securities of the types owned by the Company have been suspended. If, by September 30, 2008, the value of the Company’s holdings of this stock does not recover most of the decline that has occurred since June 30, 2008, the Company will probably record another charge to earnings for other-than-temporary impairment of this stock. As of the close of business on September 12, 2008, the fair value of the Company’s holdings of these shares was approximately $200,000. The unrealized loss on the Company’s holdings as of that date was $1,690,000. At June 30, 2008, no U.S. government-sponsored enterprise securities were in an unrecognized loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 