Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Business of PVF Capital Corp Certain interest rate movements may hurt earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.00% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide to price the Bank’s longer-term loans) have not. Although this “flattening” of the market yield curve has not had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term interest rates decline and if rates on our loans and investments reprice downward faster than our rates on deposits, then we would also experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Bank’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Bank’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt profits and slow growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and at times has forced the Bank to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to increase loans and deposits. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Management expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Bank’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 26 Table of Contents The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Park View Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. The Company also is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Company common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Our emphasis on construction and commercial real estate lending and land loans may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2007, we had $218.1 million in loans secured by commercial real estate, $101.3 million in real estate construction loans, which included $63.3 million in residential construction loans, $6.4 million in loans for the construction of multi-family properties and $31.6 million for the construction of commercial properties, and $74.4 million in loans secured by land. Commercial real estate loans, construction loans and land loans represented 30.3%, 14.1% and 10.3%, respectively, of our net loan portfolio. While commercial real estate, construction and land loans are generally more interest rate sensitive and carry higher yields than do residential mortgage loans, these types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependant on the economy in the Bank’s market area. The Bank’s market area consists of Portage, Lake, Geauga, Cuyahoga, Summit, Stark, Medina and Lorain Counties in Ohio. As of June 30, 2007, management estimates that more than 90% of deposits and 90% of loans came from its market area. Because of the Bank’s concentration of business activities in its market area, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in its market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Ohio could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions that could discourage nonnegotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and provisions allowing the Board of Directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a 27 Table of Contents business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company’s equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified Board of Directors approval requirements. The Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock as well as additional shares of Common Stock up to a total of 15,000,000 outstanding shares. These shares could be issued without stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, Ohio law provides for certain restrictions an acquisition of the Company, and federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaw and statutory provisions, as well as certain other provisions of state and federal law and certain provisions in the Company’s and the Bank’s employee benefit plans are employment agreements and change in control severance agreements, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. Risks Related to the Merger with United Community Financial Corp. You might not receive the form of merger consideration that you elect. On July 24, 2007, United Community Financial Corp. (“United Community”), The Home Savings and Loan Company of Youngstown, Ohio (“Home Savings”), the Company and the Bank entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) providing for the merger of the Company with and into United Community and the subsequent merger of the Bank with Home Savings. The Company’s shareholders will have the right to elect to receive for each share owned $18.50 in cash, 1.852 shares of United Community common stock, or a combination of $9.25 cash and 0.926 shares of United Community common stock. A Company shareholder’s election to receive cash or stock is subject to allocation procedures that are intended to ensure that, in the aggregate, 50% of the shares of Company common stock will be exchanged for cash and that the remaining Company common shares will be exchanged for United Community common stock. Therefore, you may receive stock and/or cash in an amount that is not consistent with your election, depending on the elections of other Company stockholders. If you elect all cash and the available cash is oversubscribed, then you will receive a portion of the merger consideration in United Community common stock. If you elect all stock, and the available stock is oversubscribed, then you will receive a portion of the merger consideration in cash. The number of shares of United Community common stock to be issued to Company stockholders in the merger has essentially been fixed. In the merger, 50% of the shares of Company common stock will be exchanged for cash and that the remaining Company common shares will be exchanged for United Community common stock based on a fixed exchange ratio. As a result, the number of shares of United Community common stock to be issued to Company stockholders in the merger has essentially been fixed. If the market value of United Community common stock decreases, the value of the United Community common stock to be issued to Company stockholders in the merger will decrease. United Community may experience greater than expected difficulties in integrating the Company’s businesses. The merger will involve the integration of two financial institutions that have previously operated independently of one another. United Community expects to realize cost savings and other synergies from the merger, but there can be no assurance as to when, or the extent to which, if at all, United Community will be able to realize these benefits. United Community may experience greater than expected difficulties in integrating the Company’s business, which could have an adverse effect on United Community’s ability to realize the expected benefits of the merger. There are many things that could go wrong and adversely affect the business and profitability of the combined financial institution. We cannot predict the full range of post-merger problems that may occur. Some possible difficulties include: • the integration of the businesses of Home Savings and the Bank takes longer, or is more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; • the expected growth opportunities and cost savings from the merger are not fully realized or take longer to realize than expected; • economic conditions deteriorate; or • operating costs, customer losses and business disruption following the merger, including adverse effects on relationships with employees, are greater than expected. 28 Table of Contents If you become a shareholder of United Community following the merger, you will have much less influence as a shareholder of United Community than as a stockholder of the Company. If you become a shareholder of United Community in the merger, you will have a percentage ownership that is smaller than your percentage ownership as a Company stockholder. Because of this, you will have less influence on the management and policies of United Community than you now have on the management and policies of the Company. Consummation of the merger is subject to conditions and is not assured. The consummation of the merger is subject to several closing conditions, including obtaining regulatory approval and approval of the Company’s and United Community’s stockholders. If the Company and United Community are unable to satisfy all closing conditions, including obtaining the necessary regulatory and stockholder approvals, the merger will not be completed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 