Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including consolidated financial statements and related notes, and information contained in the Company’s other SEC filings. We could fail to remain a going concern. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and service our existing trade and debt obligations, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. The Company has suffered recurring losses from operations, and had negative cash flows from operations in fiscal year 2008 of $6,246,000. The Company had a working capital deficit of approximately $9,013,000 and $24,029,000 at May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and a shareholders’ deficit of approximately $8,752,000 and $17,387,000 at May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s Senior Debt totaled approximately $0 and $9,878,000 at May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Senior Debt was due and payable in full on April 14, 2006. In September 2005, PCI executed amendments with its Senior Debt holder under which they agreed to waive the existing events of default. In August 2006, prior to the acquisition by Teletouch, PCI was successful in negotiating a restructuring of its debt obligations with both its senior and subordinated lenders under which it was fully released from the balance of $9,782,000 in subordinated debt, which was converted to redeemable equity at Teletouch’s parent company, TLLP. TLLP also assumed the full balance remaining on PCI’s senior debt obligations of the (after a $10,000,000 cash payment to the lender by the PCI) but the senior lender only granted a contingent release of the liens on the PCI’s assets (see Note 3 “Acquisition of Progressive Concepts, Inc.” for further information on the Company’s debt restructuring). Subsequent to the acquisition of PCI and through May 2008, Teletouch continued to report this senior debt obligation on its financial statements as a result of certain provisions of the contingent release in August 2006, which could 9 Table of Contents have allowed the lender to reinstate the liens at PCI as if they had never been released. In May 2008, the Company was able to secure an additional $5,000,000 revolving credit facility with another senior lender. However, the proceeds were used primarily to pay $2,000,000 to PCI’s former senior lender to have the liens on the assets of PCI fully and permanently released, and $1,500,000 was used to make an initial payment to the holders of certain redeemable common stock warrants that became due in December 2007. Even upon the Company’s completion of the restructuring of its debt obligations in August 2006 and the subsequent restructuring in May 2008, the Company has only been able to partially improve its working capital deficit and shareholders’ equity deficit. The Company is continuing to seek additional debt and equity financing to ensure it is able to meet its remaining trade and debt obligations in the event that there are changes to its existing credit arrangements as well as provide sufficient working capital to grow its operations. If it is unsuccessful in its efforts to secure additional financing and the Company’s current credit arrangements are accelerated, the Company may be unable to meet its obligations and might be forced to seek protection from its creditors. As a result of the above conditions and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, there exists substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from this uncertainty. Teletouch may be unable to complete its future regulatory filings in a timely manner. Since the acquisition of PCI on August 11, 2006, Teletouch has been unable to meet its deadlines for filing its periodic reports with the SEC. Because of the common ownership of both PCI and Teletouch prior to the acquisition, the acquisition of PCI was accounted for in a manner similar to a “pooling of interests.” Because of the pooling, PCI’s fiscal year was changed, and the historical financials of PCI were required to be audited and combined with Teletouch’s historical financials. PCI was a privately held company and although its parent company had been previously audited, PCI had never been audited on a stand-alone basis. This auditing process had been ongoing but certain financial reporting challenges were encountered, which delayed the progress on these audits. Due to the size of PCI relative to that of Teletouch at the date of acquisition, Teletouch was required to file three consecutive years of audited financial statements for PCI on a stand-alone basis with the SEC within 75 days of the completion of the acquisition. The latest date that these financials could have been filed to be considered a timely filer was October 27, 2006. The Company was unable to meet this deadline until May 2008. Once the Company became a late filer with the SEC, then the Company became subject to more comprehensive requirements related to future registration statements. These additional requirements to register its securities for sale could directly impact its ability to raise the necessary capital to grow the business. Furthermore, once the Company became a late filer with the SEC, Teletouch was in violation of the American Stock Exchange’s (the “AMEX”) continued listing standards. On January 12, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved delisting of the Company’s securities from the AMEX and the move of the listing of the Company’s securities to the Pink Sheets electronic exchange. The foregoing action by the Board was taken following the delisting determination by the AMEX Panel issued on January 9, 2007. Because of the unanticipated challenges in the PCI financial records and the resulting delays in the completion of the required audits, the Company made the decision to focus all efforts on the completion of this Report and to defer work on the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods following the August 11, 2006 acquisition of PCI. The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2007 filed in November, 2008 and the filing of this Report are significant milestones for the Company toward regaining timeliness in its financial reporting but does not guarantee the Company will be able to regain timeliness. As of the date of this Report, the Company is delinquent in filing its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended August 31, 2006, November 30, 2006, February 28, 2007, August 31, 2007, November 30, 2007, February 29, 10 Table of Contents 2008, August 31, 2008, and November 30, 2008. The Company is planning to ask for relief from the SEC with respect to the filing of some of the delinquent Form 10-Q’s upon the filing of its Form 10-K for fiscal 2008. There can be no assurance the Company will be granted any relief from the SEC on any of its delinquent filings, which could cause the Company to become delinquent on future filings while it is working through the historical filings. Teletouch’s parent company may be unable to meet its future financial obligations. Prior to the acquisition of PCI, TLLP, Teletouch’s parent company, assumed all of the remaining institutional debt of PCI, whereby the senior debt obligations formerly at PCI were transferred to TLLP as senior debt obligations and the subordinated debt obligations of PCI were partially settled by the issuance of Teletouch’s common stock owned by TLLP with the balance converted to redeemable Series A preferred units of TLLP. To secure the senior debt obligation, TLLP, pledged all of its assets, which consist primarily of its holding of approximately 80% of the outstanding common stock of Teletouch. When the senior debt originally matured in August 11, 2007, TLLP did not have sufficient cash or other means to repay this debt and was successful in negotiating an initial extension of the maturity date through October 11, 2007. Subsequent extensions were granted by the senior debt holder to TLLP extending the maturity date through May 16, 2008. On May 16, 2008, TLLP and Teletouch were successful negotiating the termination of the TPA with the senior debt holder fully releasing Teletouch and PCI from any future contingent obligations under this debt. As part of this transaction, the senior debt obligation was further amended to extend the maturity date to May 16, 2010. TLLP is a holding company with no operations and only a minimal amount cash on hand and may be dependent upon selling a sufficient number of shares it owns in Teletouch common stock or upon the cash flows of Teletouch through the receipt of future cash dividends to service its outstanding debt obligations. The Company has no current agreements with TLLP to fund cash nor does it have any current plans to declare dividends in order to allow TLLP to meet the debt obligations. TLLP’s management has represented to the Company that its plan to settle this debt obligation is to sell a sufficient number of its shares of Teletouch’s common stock in order to raise the necessary funds when this obligation becomes payable. If TLLP is unsuccessful in repaying these obligations, then the ownership of Teletouch could substantially change in the future. If the lenders foreclose on Teletouch’s common stock owned by TLLP and become the majority shareholders of Teletouch, then there is a risk these lenders could vote through matters that may not be in the best interest of the shareholders as a whole. Teletouch may be unable to secure the financing needed for future acquisitions. Teletouch may be unable to secure financing or only be presented with financing options that contain unfavorable terms to finance future acquisitions. If financing is unavailable to the Company, Teletouch will be unable to complete future acquisitions and would then be forced to grow its revenues from its existing businesses, which to-date has proved difficult without additional capital funding. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers, who may not provide us with competitive products at reasonable prices when we need them in the future, or have adequate financing to secure such products. Our business depends upon several factors, one of which is our relationship with AT&T, the Company’s largest supplier of cellular services and products. The loss of AT&T or any other significant vendor, a substantial price increase or decrease imposed by any vendor, a shortage or oversupply of product available from our vendors or tightening of credit terms by our vendors could have a material adverse impact on the Company. We are dependent on maintaining open vendor trade credit lines on reasonable terms. Interruption of these lines could have a material adverse impact and could determine whether or not the Company can continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that product shortages, product surpluses or renewed tightening of trade credit terms will not occur in the future. 11 Table of Contents The loss of any of our key customers, a material reduction in our customer base for cellular service or a reduction in prices charged to customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers have experienced severe price competition and for this and other reasons may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than previously provided. The Company’s wholesale business contains several key customers. As a result, we remain vulnerable to a significant loss of revenues in the event we should lose any key customer. The loss of any key customer, a reduction in the amount of product or services from key customers or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We do not maintain agreements with the majority of our customers in the wholesale business, which increases the risk that such relationships could be terminated at any time. The Company does maintain contracts varying from one to two years with a portion of its customer base for cellular service; however, the customer may elect to transfer to another carrier at any time and incur a penalty fee. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. The demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of the cellular industry. A marked decline in growth of the cellular industry and/or demand for cellular products in the areas in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends largely upon continued consumer demand for cellular products. While the industry has been experiencing growth, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue or that we will be able to adjust our business model to capitalize on that growth. The demand for our products and services has fluctuated and may continue to vary substantially. Economic slowdowns or changes in promotional programs offered by AT&T may lower consumer demand and create higher levels of inventories in our distribution channels, resulting in lower than anticipated demand for the products and services that we offer. The current economic slow-down in the United States could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position in 2009 and beyond. Any type of systems failure could reduce sales, increase costs or result in liability claims. Despite the Company’s implementation of preventive safety measures, Teletouch’s technology is vulnerable to systems failure due to such things as computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any systems failure, accident or security breach could cause significant interruptions in our operations. In addition, we could be subject to liability for any loss or damage to our customers’ data or applications or inappropriate disclosure of customers’ confidential information. The cost to remedy a systems failure, accident or security breach could have a significant effect on our financial condition. We cannot be sure that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience a hardware or software failure or if there is an earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, a power or telecommunications failure, intentional disruptions of service by third parties, an act of God or an act of war. A failure in our systems could cause us to be unable to service our customers or provide timely and accurate billing, and as a result, we may lose customers or face litigation that could involve material costs and distract management from operating our business. 12 Table of Contents Any defects in Teletouch’s products or in those provided to us by suppliers could expose the Company to liability, damage its reputation and customer relations, and adversely affect the development and release of future products. Teletouch’s products are inherently complex; therefore, it is possible that any defects contained therein may only be detectable once the product is in use. Given the critical services our products provide, these defects could have a serious adverse impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm customer relations and expose us to liability. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by the increasing presence of our competitors in these markets. Although Teletouch’s subsidiary, PCI has operated in the Dallas / Fort Worth metropolitan market for over 20 years, demand for its products may be adversely affected by the increasing presence of competitors. These competitors are comprised of competing cellular service providers, including the Company’s primary supplier, AT&T. Several of the Company’s competitors, including AT&T, have more extensive marketing capabilities and greater financial, technical and personnel resources. Furthermore, Teletouch’s competitors may have greater brand recognition, broader product lines and more established customer relations. Our success depends on the introduction and acceptance of new products and services. The telecommunications market is constantly changing, due in part to technological advances, evolving industry standards and the development of new products. Teletouch’s future success will depend partly on our ability to keep up with these changes by purchasing new products for resale and developing unique service offerings with a high market demand. If we fail to identify such products and services in response to market demands, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on our investments and could lose market share to our competitors. We face risks inherent in new product and service offerings as well as new markets. From time to time, we introduce new products and services or expand our previous product and service offerings to existing and target markets. Our products must therefore be considered in light of the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing new lines of business in a rapidly changing industry. Although we believe we can successfully differentiate our product and service offerings from others in the marketplace, we must be able to compete against other companies, who may already be established in the marketplace and have greater resources. There can be no assurance we will be successful in adding products or services or expanding into new markets or that our administrative, operational, infrastructure and financial resources and systems will be adequate to accommodate such offerings or expansion. We may incur losses if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable. Although the Company entered into a factoring facility with Thermo in August 2006, the Company, as part of the agreement, continues to service the accounts receivables. The Company is subject to recourse on the accounts receivables if they age over 120 days from the due date. As a result, accounts receivable management continues to be important to the Company’s liquidity. The Company uses credit management tools, which include credit scoring services in the Company’s operations, to manage its accounts receivable exposure. Several factors can affect the collection of our accounts receivable, including, but not limited to, the 13 Table of Contents financial health of the customer, industry and economic conditions, our policies related to extending credit, contractual provisions and the ability of the customer to provide security, collateral or guarantees relative to credit granted by us. Adverse changes in any of these factors, some of which may not be wholly within our control, could create delays in collecting or an inability to collect our accounts receivable, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to maintain or improve operating margins. The Company’s primary source of revenue is generated from its subsidiary, PCI, through the sale of AT&T’s cellular service and the related sale of wireless products. Any disruption in the relationship between PCI and AT&T could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Our ability to be successful will depend upon our ability to maintain or improve our operating margins. Given the fixed revenue share relationship with AT&T on the service billings, PCI can only improve gross margins through the introduction of add-on services to these cellular subscribers. Under the agreement with AT&T, PCI absorbs 100% of the cost of third party roaming charges incurred by its customer base. Gross margins could be negatively affected by increased roaming usage by its customer base, which is difficult to predict and control. We may not be able to improve our current operating margins for products or services offered or increase our sales. Even if our sales volumes increase, the gross margins that we receive from our sales may not be sufficient to make our operations profitable. Teletouch may be unsuccessful in obtaining and enforcing intellectual property protection. The Company’s ability to compete with its competitors in the markets that it operates depends in part on its ability to enforce its intellectual property rights, such as the Hawk Electronics name. The Company’s subsidiary, PCI has operated under the Hawk Electronics name since the late 1970’s in the Dallas / Fort Worth market, and the brand recognition provides some advantage to PCI over its competitors. If we determine that our intellectual property rights have been infringed upon or if we are notified that we are infringing upon certain intellectual property rights, the Company may become involved in litigation. Such litigation or claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Furthermore, an adverse result in an action against the Company may require that we pay substantial damages, cease operating under the Hawk Electronics name and expend significant resources to either license the infringing brand name or develop a non-infringing brand name. We cannot give any assurance that we would be able to develop a similar non-infringing brand name quickly enough in the market to continue to remain competitive with more well-known brand competitors. In June 2008, the Company was notified of its alleged infringement on the trade name Hawk Electronics. The Company is currently in discussions with the other party and aggressively defending its position that its use of the name in the markets that it operates is proper. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in resolving this matter, and there is a risk that a court of law may force Teletouch to cease using the Hawk Electronics name. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and stock exchange rules, have required most public companies, including our Company, to devote additional internal and external resources to various governance and compliance matters. Because we have a relatively small corporate staff, we rely heavily on outside 14 Table of Contents professional advisers to assist us with these efforts. As a result, we incurred additional operating expenses in 2007 and 2008 and will incur further expenses in the future. These future costs will include increased accounting related fees associated with preparing the attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by May 2010. In addition, these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, as well as modifications by the government and stock exchanges. The way in which they are applied and implemented may change over time, which could result in even higher costs to address and implement revisions to compliance (including disclosure) and governance practices. Our products are subject to government regulation. Two-way radio communications are subject to regulation by the government. Teletouch’s two-way radio products and technology must conform to domestic rules and regulations established to avoid interference among users and facilitate interconnection of telecommunications systems. It is our opinion that our products and technology are in compliance with all currently existing government rules and regulations. However, new rules or regulations could adversely affect our business by requiring that current products or technology be modified to comply with such rules or regulations or by rendering current products or technology obsolete. Furthermore, Teletouch cannot predict if and when new rules or regulations will come into effect. Regulatory changes could adversely affect our business by restricting our development of our services and increasing the opportunity for additional competition. The Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) must approve renewal applications for Teletouch’s radio licenses. The FCC grants radio licenses for varying terms of up to 10 years, and the FCC must approve renewal applications. There can be no assurance that the FCC will approve or act upon Teletouch’s future applications in a timely manner. Delays in or denial of our renewal applications could adversely affect our business operations, which could reduce our revenues and decrease our level of profitability. Future applications by Teletouch for additional transmitter sites to expand our coverage on existing frequencies must be approved by the FCC. Teletouch regularly applies to the FCC to use additional frequencies and to add additional transmitter sites to expand coverage on existing frequencies. Under current FCC guidelines, we can expand our coverage and add additional sites only under frequencies below 929 MHz. All other frequencies below 929 MHz on which Teletouch holds licenses are frozen in a status quo condition pending the final announcement and implementation of geographic area licensing auctions. In addition, FCC approval is required for the Company’s acquisitions of radio licenses held by other companies, as well as transfers of controlling interests of any entities that hold radio licenses. Teletouch cannot be sure that the FCC will approve or act upon the Company’s future applications in a timely manner. Denial or delayed approval by the FCC could affect our business operations, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our level of profitability. Also, all major modification and expansion applications are subject to competitive bidding procedures. Teletouch cannot predict the impact that these procedures will have on its licensing practices. The global wireless industry is intensely competitive, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully in this industry. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment and believe that such competition will intensify in the future. We compete primarily on the basis of inventory availability and selection, price, delivery time and service. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater capital and management resources than we do. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may obtain access to new technologies before we do or may offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. In addition, potential users of wireless systems may find their communications needs satisfied by other current and developing technologies. During the last several years, the telecommunications industry has been very volatile as a result of overcapacity, which has led to price erosion and bankruptcies. If the Company cannot control subscriber and customer attrition through maintaining competitive services and pricing, revenue could decrease significantly. Our ability to remain competitive will therefore depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt our business to such technological changes and our ability to achieve significant penetration in existing and new geographic markets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and adapting to such technological changes. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our operations, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses, and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that management currently cannot predict. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 