Item 1A. Risk Factors There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of May 31, 2011, the Company has $2,239,000 cash on hand, working capital deficit of approximately $7,002,000 and a shareholders’ deficit of approximately $10,759,000. Included in this working capital deficit are certain current debt obligations of $4,439,000. Additionally, and not recorded as a liability, the Company estimates that interest and fees due on its debt obligations for the next year will be approximately $1,926,000, of which approximately $1,748,000 is payable to Thermo Credit, LLC,(“Thermo”) the Company’s senior lender. During fiscal year 2011, Thermo has been unable to advance funds to the Company in part due to the Company’s deficient and deteriorating borrowing base due to its losses in its cellular business and due to certain restrictions imposed on Thermo that has limited its ability to advance funds to the Company as it has done in the past. The Company’s outstanding balance on the senior Thermo revolving credit facility totaled approximately $11,330,000 at May 31, 2011 with approximately $2,897,000, including estimated interest, due in the next 12 months. Thermo has worked with the Company in the past on certain defaults and payment extensions and through 2010 was the primary source of working capital needed by the Company from time to time. Discussions are ongoing with Thermo about modifying the note to provide for certain payment extensions and additional availability but as of the date of this Report no agreement has been reached. The Company can provide no assurance that it will get any relief from its lenders on any of its current debt service obligations. Additionally, as a result of its operating performance and liquidity issues during fiscal year 2011, certain trade credit terms the Company has relied upon for purchases of products and services to support its ongoing business have been reduced and new trade credit terms are becoming more difficult to secure. The Company reported an operating loss during fiscal year 2011 and does not expect a significant improvement in its operating results in the next fiscal year without either a favorable outcome from its ongoing litigation against AT&T or a significant increase in revenues and margins from its wholesale or two- way radio business units beyond levels that were able to be achieved in the prior fiscal years. Since June 2007, the Company has experienced higher than normal cellular subscriber attrition primarily due to the launch of the iPhone. Although the iPhone is offered to customers by AT&T, PCI has been denied the approval to sell or activate the iPhone for customers by AT&T. In September 2009, the Company commenced an arbitration proceeding against AT&T seeking monetary damages but to date this matter has not concluded. During fiscal year 2011, the Company incurred approximately $1,390,000 in legal and professional fees on this matter. The Company is currently in settlement discussions with AT&T but cannot predict if the terms of the settlement can be agreed upon through the discussions. If the Company ceases settlement discussions and resumes the arbitration, it is unable to predict when a final hearing date will be scheduled due to the numerous delays over the past couple of years or if the outcome of the hearing would be favorable to the Company. During fiscal year 2010 and continuing into fiscal year 2011, the Company has been focused on reducing costs to align with its declining cellular revenues, but certain of its costs are relatively fixed and deemed necessary to maintain its other operations and meet the requirements of being a public company. The Company reviews its staffing levels on a quarterly basis and continues to seek ways to consolidate and automate necessary functions in order to control personnel costs. The Company believes that its efforts to reduce it operating expenses have been successful to date and is concerned that further reductions in these expenses would accelerate its cellular revenue losses so most of the current efforts are focused on finalizing its dispute with AT&T with the hope of receiving a cash payment for its damages, negotiating extensions on its current debt obligations and seeking additional sources of revenue from its other business units. There is no assurance the dispute with AT&T can be resolved in the near future nor that if resolved, the Company will receive any award of monetary damages. No assurance can be provided that the Company will be able to increase revenues in its other business units during fiscal year 2012 to sufficient levels to offset the margin impact of the expected loss of its cellular revenues assuming its relationship with AT&T remains unchanged. 8 The Company is continuing to negotiate with its lenders and other creditors for payment extensions at least through the conclusion of the arbitration against AT&T so that it can preserve a sufficient amount of cash to continue its operations and fund the remainder of the litigation. The Company is also continuing to seek additional debt and equity financing to ensure it is able to meet its remaining trade and debt obligations as well as provide sufficient working capital to continue and grow its operations. If it is unsuccessful in its efforts to secure the payment extensions it is seeking or is unable to secure additional financing and the Company’s current debt obligations are accelerated, the Company would likely be unable to meet its obligations and might be forced to seek protection from its creditors. As a result of the above conditions and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, there exists substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our reduced cash balances may impede our ability to support our operations, service our debt or satisfy our vendors’ payment terms. Due to our declining revenues and use of cash to sustain our ongoing operations, the Company cash balances have declined significantly since May 2010. Significant costs, including funding our ongoing arbitration with AT&T, and certain payment obligations have also contributed to the decline in our cash balances. We believe that our current cash balances combined with cash we expect to generate from operations and possibly from the settlement of our dispute with AT&T will be sufficient to operate our business for the next 12 months. Our cash needs for the next 12 months are dependent on our ability to develop new sources of revenue and margins, further reduction in costs to improve profitability, securing financing to continue our existing operations, or securing financing to acquire a new business. The completion of any of these activities to provide cash to continue the business cannot be assured but the Company has demonstrated prior success in managing its costs in times of declining revenues. If our cash flows and cash balances continue to decrease, we may be unable to continue to service our current debt obligations which could also negatively affect our business. In the event that our business initiatives do not materialize or additional financing is unable to be secured, we will be forced to continue to eliminate costs and delay payments to certain vendors in order to provide sufficient operating cash to sustain the business through the final hearing on the AT&T arbitration which we have previously reported that as a result of a mandatory mediation held on May 17, 2011, we are currently attempting to negotiate a settlement with AT&T and had agreed to delay the final arbitration hearing. Initially, this hearing was delayed to July 22, 2011 to allow time for the terms of this settlement agreement to be documented, but the settlement discussions have taken longer than anticipated. We have currently agreed to allow the settlement discussions to continue and have notified the arbitrator that if these discussions are unsuccessful or are not making reasonable progress, we will proceed to the final arbitration hearing for resolution of this matter. If the arbitration resumes, new hearing dates will be scheduled with an expected start date no later than 30-45 days following the termination of the settlement discussions and subject to the arbitrator’s schedule. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to reach agreeable settlement terms with AT&T or of a favorable outcome from the arbitration following a hearing that would result in an award of damages or that any such award would be in the range we anticipate or previously estimated and updated herein. Failure to reach acceptable settlement terms, an unfavorable ruling or further delays in the AT&T arbitration may have a material impact on our financial condition and impede our ability to sustain operations. 9 Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. During the quarter ended November 30, 2010 and as a result of preparing for a sales and use tax audit, we identified issues with the prior application and interpretation of sales tax rates assessed on services billed to its cellular subscribers. Prior sales tax audits on these billings have not detected these issues although the methodology for computing sales taxes was similar in these prior periods. We believe it is probable that these issues will be identified and challenged in the current audit based on the initial inquiries by the sales tax auditor. As of the date of this Report, we are unable to estimate the outcome of the audit but estimate a range of potential liability between $22,000 and $2,490,000. This range includes a low estimate based on similar audit results as in prior periods to a high estimate based on a conservative application of sales tax rates to all cellular services billed and including underpayment penalties and interest. The application of various sales tax laws and rates to our cellular services previously billed is complex, however, the actual liability could fall outside of our range of estimates due to items identified during the audit but not considered by us. Any liability assessed as a result of this audit would negatively impact our financial condition but in the event the assessed liability is closer to the upper end of the range estimated, the Company would currently not have sufficient cash on hand to meet this obligation and would be forced to negotiate a payment plan. If successful in securing financing on such a tax obligation, the assets of the Company would likely become subject to a tax lien which could have the effect of limiting our ability to secure new financing or by triggering a default under agreements with our current lenders. We are exposed to credit risk, collection risk and payment delinquencies on its accounts receivable. None of our outstanding accounts receivables are secured. Our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of services or products. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit collection risk and avoid losses. To date, our losses on uncollectible receivables have been within historical trends and expectations but due to continuing poor economic conditions, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations. Additionally, a sizable number of our cellular subscribers have transferred their services to AT&T to purchase the iPhone or other services that we have not been allowed to offer. Balances due to us by customers that transfer to AT&T have proven difficult to collect once their service has been established with AT&T directly. Both of these factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. 10 Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly restrict our ability to generate revenues or obtain debt or equity financing. The global economy continues to experience volatility and uncertainty. Such conditions could reduce demand for our products and services which would significantly jeopardize our ability to achieve our sales targets. These conditions could also affect our potential strategic partners, which, in turn, could make it much more difficult to execute a strategic collaboration. Moreover, volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products and services in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause customers to reduce purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers’ ability to supply sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to fulfill sales orders. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers, investors, and business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm sales, profitability and results of operations. Economic downturns or other adverse economic changes (local, regional, or national) can also hurt our financial performance in the form of lower interest earned on investments and / or could result in losses of portions of principal in our investment portfolio. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. To date, we have retained highly qualified senior and mid-level management team, but cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. Our inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to maintain and provide additional services to our customers depends upon our ability to hire and retain business development and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in telecommunications industry. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our ongoing litigation with AT&T and the necessary layoffs to align costs with our declining cellular revenues has created an environment of uncertainty for certain of our key personnel within this business segment. Our inability to hire additional qualified personnel to support our existing cellular business may lead to higher levels of customer attrition or could result in higher recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for such personnel. These accelerated losses of revenues or increased costs may continue to erode our profit margins and make hiring new personnel impractical. We are experiencing increasing competition in the marketplace for our cellular subscribers, and our primary competitor, AT&T, has significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. In the market for telecommunications products and services, we face competition from several competitors, but most notably from our primary supplier, AT&T. AT&T continues to develop and is expected to continue developing products and services that may entice our cellular subscribers to move their services to AT&T directly. Although this is the basis for our ongoing litigation with AT&T, the resolution to this litigation has been delayed for many months past our initial expectations (hearing delayed from November 2010 to an unscheduled date as of the date of this Report). If we are not able to participate in these products and services, we will continue to lose subscribers to AT&T and possibly at an accelerated rate in the future and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure that we will be able to slow the rate of attrition of our cellular subscribers to AT&T or that AT&T will make any of its new products or services available to us in the future. AT&T has substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products and services. The losses of our cellular subscribers to AT&T to date has had a material but manageable impact on our financial condition but if we are unable to slow the subscriber losses, develop new revenues and margins to offset these losses or the litigation is further delayed and not settled in our favor, we will be forced to make further significant cost reductions in the business to sustain our operations which in turn may only accelerate our losses of revenues. 11 Amounts due under our senior revolving credit facility could accelerate as a result of continued losses of our cellular subscribers which could result in an operating cash deficiency and an inability to continue servicing the debt obligation. We have historically relied upon our revolving credit facility with Thermo Credit, LLC (“Thermo”) to fund our working capital and operating needs. Initially, this facility provided sufficient available borrowings for us since underlying assets pledged as collateral were growing. The primary asset pledged as collateral is our accounts receivable. The launch of the iPhone in June 2007 and AT&T’s refusal to allow us to sell the iPhone has resulted in a steady decline in our subscriber base, the related billings and accounts receivable. This decline in the subscriber base and related billings was accelerated as a result of the expiration our primary DFW distribution agreement with AT&T in August 2009, which ended our ability to add new subscribers and to allow AT&T subscribers in the DFW market to move their cellular services to us. Prior to August 2009, transfers of customers from AT&T had partially offset some of the losses of customers leaving to purchase the iPhone from AT&T or Apple. This decline in cellular billings and accounts receivable has directly reduced the borrowings available under the credit facility resulting in over-advances outstanding against the credit facility. We had to borrow the maximum amount available against our assets for certain debt restructuring transactions in addition to fund our working capital needs so the majority of the borrowed funds are not held in cash or other short term assets that would allow us to service an accelerated repayment of the credit facility. To date, Thermo has allowed us to remain periodically over-advanced on the facility, extended certain repayment terms, modified certain scheduled debt amortization and has continued to allow the inclusion of certain assets in the computation of its borrowing base, which in turn has allowed us to meet our obligations. In addition, Thermo has granted the Company periodic non-compliance waivers when the Company could not meet its prior agreed debt service coverage ratio and positive operating income covenants in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2011. If Thermo were to require repayment of all current over-advanced funds, we would likely experience operating cash deficiencies up to and including being unable to meet its obligations under this revolving credit facility. To the extent that we are unable to refinance this debt, we would likely not have the means to fully repay Thermo from the cash on hand or generated from current operations resulting in the possibility of a foreclosure on all of the assets of the Company. In March 2011, the Company executed a third amendment under its credit facility agreement with Thermo which among other things extended the maturity date of the facility to January 2013 and deferred certain principal payments (see Note 7 – “Long-Term Debt” for further discussion on the third amendment to the Thermo credit facility). Subsequent to the third amendment of the Thermo Revolver, Thermo informed the Company it no longer has the availability to borrow funds under the existing credit facility due to the over-advance funding against the Company’s non-accounts receivable assets, the outstanding balance of the credit facility and Thermo’s inability to receive additional cash from its funding source due to the magnitude of the Company’s debt facility within Thermo’s loan portfolio. The Company cannot provide assurance Thermo would not accelerate the amount due under the credit facility if the Company is not in compliance with the covenants under its debt agreement with Thermo going forward. An accelerated reduction in our cellular subscriber base could have a material adverse effect on our business. The launch of the iPhone in June 2007 and AT&T’s refusal to allow us sell the iPhone has resulted in a steady decline in our cellular subscriber base (see Item 1. Legal Proceedings for discussion of the action brought against AT&T related to the iPhone and other matters). This decline in our cellular subscriber base was accelerated as a result of the expiration of our primary DFW distribution agreement with AT&T in August 2009. We continue lose subscribers to AT&T and are currently seeking relief through a binding arbitration process that it initiated in September 2009. As AT&T continues to release new products or services that are not made available to us, losses of cellular subscribers will continue. If any of these products or services become an extraordinary demand or are required by consumers or businesses, the result could be an acceleration of cellular subscriber losses to AT&T. Although we maintain contracts varying from one to two years with our current cellular customers, the customer may voluntarily elect to transfer to another carrier, including AT&T, at any time and incur a penalty fee. If expenses related to our cellular operations are not adjusted accordingly due to a declining subscriber base, we will have to rely upon our other business units to replace the revenue and income loss from our cellular operations. We can provide no assurance that any of our other existing business units could generate enough revenue in a timely manner to cover the losses sustained from a rapidly declining cellular subscriber base. We also can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. 12 We may be unsuccessful in the arbitration with AT&T and could incur a significant obligation from the outcome of the arbitration or an unfavorable outcome from the arbitration could have a material adverse effect on the business. Since July 2007, we have attempted to negotiate with AT&T for the purpose of obviating the need for legal action. However, such attempts have failed. Therefore, on September 30, 2009, the Company, through the legal entity Progressive Concepts, Inc. commenced an arbitration proceeding against New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC and AT&T Mobility Texas LLC (collectively, “AT&T”) seeking monetary damages. In March 2011, both the Company’s and AT&T’s independent valuation experts filed initial damages computations with the arbitrator which valued each party’s respective damages as a result of the other party’s actions. The Company’s expert provided damages computations under several scenarios which included damages assuming PCI’s damages were limited to the liquidated damages provision included in the distribution agreement and several alternate computation of lost profits depending on the timing of which it was determined that PCI should have been allowed to sell the iPhone. Under the liquidated damages limitation, PCI’s damages are estimated to be $48.9 million. Under the lost profits computations, PCI’s damages are estimated to be as high as $35.0 million due to lost profits on subscriber transferred to AT&T and those subscribers that PCI did not get because of it not being allowed to sell the iPhone. Additionally, if it is determined that PCI should also be compensated for the fair value of its subscriber base as of August 31, 2009 (the date of the expiration of the DFW and San Antonio distribution agreements), damages could be increased by $51.8 million, resulting in total damages and compensation due to PCI totaling $86.8 million. These damages estimates are subject to final revisions by the Company’s damages expert prior to the final hearing. The Company can provide no assurance that it will prevail in the arbitration matter or, even if and when it does, it will be awarded the amount of damages it currently estimates. There is no assurance that such damages, if and when awarded, will not be significantly less than the damage estimates discussed above. The binding arbitration was commenced to seek relief for damages incurred as AT&T has prevented PCI from selling the popular iPhone and other “AT&T exclusive” products and services that PCI believes that it is and has been contractually entitled to provide to its customers under distribution agreements between PCI and AT&T. In response to PCI’s initiating its legal action, AT&T filed certain counterclaims in the arbitration, including seeking monetary damages for equipment transactions between the parties and certain alleged breaches of the distribution agreement by the Company. In March 2011, AT&T’s independent valuation expert filed initial damages computations with the arbitrator and estimated AT&T’s damages to be in the range of $7.6 million to $9.9 million depending on the arbitrator’s interpretation of the San Antonio distribution agreement. 13 If we do not prevail in our claim against AT&T, then the expected result is that we would continue to service our subscribers under the distribution agreement and would not be awarded any monetary damages. While we believe that AT&T’s counterclaims are baseless, if AT&T prevails in its counterclaims during the arbitration, we could potentially be held liable for certain payments to AT&T or it could be ruled that we had defaulted on certain terms and conditions of the distribution agreement as a result of actions alleged in these counterclaims which could give AT&T the right to terminate the distribution agreements. We can provide no assurance that we will prevail in the arbitration against AT&T or be able to defend against the counterclaims raised by AT&T or pay any obligations due to AT&T in the event they were to prevail in any of their counterclaims. Our common stock is not traded on any national securities exchange. Our common stock is current quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and is not heavily traded, which may increase price quotation volatility and could limit the liquidity of the common stock, all of which may adversely affect the market price of the common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could adversely affect current and future shareholders. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, as in the stock market in general, and the market for OTC Bulletin Board quoted stocks in particular. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions and terms in the industry in which we operate or sales of our common stock, investor perceptions of our company, the success of competitive products, services or technologies or regulatory developments. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, because our stock is thinly trading, there is a disparity between the bid and the asked price that may not be indicative of the stock’s true value. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is and has historically been significantly less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. 14 The sale of our common stock as a result of recent transactions by our former parent company, TLLP may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and the sale of these shares of common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In July 2011, the Company registered up to 20,499,001 shares of our common stock that may be sold into the market by certain shareholders that had purchased shares of our common stock from our former parent company TLLP. Included in this registration were 12,000,000 shares that were registered for TLLP. As a result of the transfer of the majority of TLLP’s holdings of Teletouch’s common stock on August 11, 2011 to allow TLLP to settle certain of its debt obligations, additional shares are contemplated to be registered in the coming months. The shares already registered may be sold immediately or over an extended period. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock by these shareholders may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. These shareholders may sell all, some or none of those shares. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by these shareholders, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. We may likely issue additional equity or debt securities, which may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used, and will likely use or continue to use, our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock to fund working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If additional equity securities are issued, particularly during times when our common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Our publicly filed reports are subject to review by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. We could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 