Item 1A. Risk Factors There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of May 31, 2012, the Company has approximately $1,973,000 cash on hand, a working capital deficit of approximately $11,662,000 (primarily due to all of the Company’s debt deemed current at the close of the period, as further described herein below) and a related shareholders’ deficit of approximately $6,287,000. Included in the working capital deficit are debt obligations of approximately $13,123,000, including senior revolving credit debt of approximately $8,233,000 with Thermo Credit, LLC (“Thermo”), real estate loans totaling approximately $2,699,000 and approximately $2,191,000 of accrued sales and use tax obligations related to the results of a State of Texas (the “State”) tax audit of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, PCI, for the period January 2006 through October 2009, as well as certain estimated tax liability related to similar tax issues that are believed to have continued beyond the current tax audit period (see Note 8 – “Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities” and Note 9 – “Texas Sales and Use Tax Obligation” for further discussion of this sales tax liability). As discussed further below, the Company is dependent on raising additional debt and / or equity financing to resolve its current debt obligations and on receiving certain payment relief from the State related to the sales tax liability to maintain sufficient cash to continue operations over the next twelve months. The Company’s debt with Thermo was originally set to mature in January 2013. However, on February 21, 2012, the Company received a Notice of Borrowing Base Redetermination (the “Notice”) from Thermo, stating that it planned to revise the elements that comprised the Company’s Borrowing Base, and that the Company would then be significantly over-advanced on its loan facility. On March 8, 2012, Thermo withdrew and rescinded the Notice and the parties negotiated a compromise solution by entering into Waiver and Amendment No. 5 to the Loan and Security Agreement (“Amendment No. 5”) effective February 29, 2012. Thermo agreed to enter into Amendment No. 5, provided that the Company made a payment on the outstanding balance of the loan in the amount of $2,000,000 by March 14, 2012. Under the terms of Amendment No. 5, Thermo agreed to waive certain financial covenants and not accelerate collection of the Note through August 31, 2012, provided that certain financial performance targets were met by the Company for its 4th fiscal quarter ending May 31, 2012, and that the Company refinanced or was substantially through the process of refinancing its existing real estate loans, thereby providing Thermo with an additional $1,400,000 payment on the loan on or before July 15, 2012. Amendment No. 5 also terminated Thermo’s obligation to lend or advance any additional funds under the Loan Agreement. Although the Company made the required $2,000,000 cash payment on March 14, 2012, the Company did not meet all of the requirements under Amendment No. 5 during its 4th fiscal quarter ending May 31, 2012 and was not able to refinance its existing real estate loans and pay Thermo an additional $1,400,000 by July 15, 2012. However, on July 23, 2012, Thermo notified the Company that the August 31, 2012 maturity date was being accepted, but that no further extensions would be provided beyond this date. As a result of the recent sale of the Company’s two-way business (see Note 20 – “Subsequent Event” for more information on the sale of the two-way business), the Company was able to pay Thermo approximately $1,001,000 on August 14, 2012 in exchange for Thermo releasing its liens on the assets related to the two-way business. In addition, the Company expects to pay Thermo an additional $300,000 after the Company’s Tyler two-way facilities are transferred to DFW Communications, Inc. Thermo continues to work with the Company as it seeks new financing to settle the amount due under the Thermo revolving credit facility. The Company executed a term sheet with a prospective new lender on August 1, 2012 and is currently working with the lender through the due diligence process. As of the date of this Report, the Company’s outstanding balance on the Thermo loan is approximately $7,075,000. 8 Additionally, the Company’s real estate loans with East West Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary of East West Bancorp, and Jardine Capital Corporation initially matured on May 3, 2012. Both lenders granted extensions through early August 2012 and as of the date of this Report, East West Bank has communicated its willingness to extend the maturity date for an additional 90 days (through early November 2012) to allow additional time for the Company to locate a new real estate lender. The Company had previously identified a bank to finance the real estate, but upon initial diligence that bank expressed concerns about the current status of the Company’s loan with Thermo and the fact that the Texas sales tax liability remained unresolved, but this lender was willing to consider this loan pending that these matters were fully resolved to their satisfaction. Because the Company is in the early stages of diligence with its potential new senior lender and since the State of Texas is in the lengthy process of reviewing the Company’s request for relief on a portion of the sales tax obligation, both matters remain unresolved as of the date of this Report, and the Company has not secured a commitment from a new lender for financing its real estate. As of the date of this Report, the outstanding balance of the East West Bank and Jardine Capital Corporation debt totaled approximately, $2,119,000 and $546,000, respectively. The total debt outstanding combined with the Company’s previously reported fiscal year 2012 operating results and the issues identified in the sales tax audit of PCI have created challenges in securing new financing. The Company has been told by its prospective new senior lender that the new loan can be closed by mid-September 2012, if no additional matters are identified during diligence. The Company is not aware of any matters that would prevent it from closing on this new loan and anticipates this loan will provide sufficient proceeds to settle its debt with Thermo. The terms of this new loan, as outlined in the term sheet, contemplate a slightly higher cost of financing under the new loan as compared to the Company’s current loan with Thermo, but these terms will continue to be negotiated through the final loan documents. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to close this new loan or that it would be able to find an alternate lender to provide a similar amount of financing against the Company’s assets or that such financing will be sufficient to settle its obligation to Thermo. No assurance can be provided that Thermo will provide any further extension of the maturity date or that Thermo will not take action against the Company and the underlying collateral if the Company cannot pay off the Thermo loan on or before the August 31, 2012 maturity date. Further, it is unlikely the Company will be able to re-finance its current real estate debt until such time as its senior debt obligation with Thermo is settled and a new senior loan facility is in place, and no assurance can be provided that these lenders will not take action against the Company and the underlying real estate collateral. Further acceleration or collection actions taken by Thermo, either real estate lender or the State of Texas prior to the Company being able to secure the new financing would likely result in the Company being forced to seek protection from its creditors or turn over its collateral, which in the case of Thermo, collectively comprises all of the assets of the Company. The Company has recorded charges of approximately $2,191,000 as a result of the State of Texas (the “State”) sales and use tax audit of PCI, as discussed above. In June 2012, the audit was completed and the Company was noticed that its sales and use tax obligation to the State, which was due and payable on July 23, 2012. Since the Company did not have the means to pay the entire tax obligation by that date, the Company petitioned the State for a redetermination hearing related to the PCI sales and use tax audit on July 9, 2012. The redetermination letter submitted to the State included a request for a re-payment agreement and a waiver of penalty and interest among other items. As of the date of this Report, a final hearing date has not been set by the State, but the Company is currently working on submitting the necessary documentation to the State related to the redetermination hearing process. The Company can provide no assurance the sales and use tax obligation will be reduced, a re-payment agreement will be executed or a waiver of penalty and interest will be granted by the State. Specifically, if a payment plan is not granted by the State as a result of the redetermination hearing, the Company would be unable to pay the tax obligation without securing additional debt financing which cannot be assured (see Note 8 – “Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities” and Note 9 – “Texas Sales and Use Tax Obligation” for further discussion on the Texas sales and use tax audit accruals). 9 The Company has been advised by counsel that it can seek recovery of taxes that were not billed or collected from its customers and suppliers beginning in January 2006 and intends to make every reasonable effort to pursue the collection of such taxes. The underlying unbilled and uncollected sales tax due and legally recoverable from all of PCI’s customers and suppliers is approximately $1,270,000. Based on a detailed review of all currently available cellular billings from August 2006 through October 2009, and a review of certain equipment sales invoices from January 2006 through October 2009, the Company has determined that its top 50 customers comprise approximately $450,000 of the unbilled sales taxes that the Company will pursue for recovery. There can be no assurance that the Company’s recovery efforts will be successful, nor can the Company estimate an amount of recovery expected from such efforts at this time. The Company has been focused on improving its operating results to attract new lenders to the Company since it became aware of Thermo’s intent to accelerate the Company’s senior debt earlier in calendar year 2012. The improved operating results during the Company’s 4th quarter ending May 31, 2012 compared to the operating results of its 3rd quarter ending February 29, 2012 is primarily the result of price increases implemented on certain services and fees billed to the Company’s cellular subscriber base, intentional cost reduction measures taken in all areas of the Company and limits imposed on the number of subsidized handsets sold to new and existing cellular subscribers. Along with the closing of four Hawk branded stores in June 2012 and the sale of the two-way business in August 2012, these actions are part of the Company’s overall strategic plan to transition the business away from its declining cellular services business to a focus on large scale wholesale distribution of cellular phones and accessories. This transition to a new business model has been slowed by the Company’s lack of available working capital to invest in the additional inventory and other resources required to improve sales and margins in the wholesale business. The current focus has been on improving short term profitability to provide comfort to the various lenders that have been approached about providing the needed new financing. The Company is continuing to see erosion in cellular services revenues and profits due to continued losses of subscribers while, although limited, it is incurring the added costs of activating new cellular subscribers and upgrading existing subscribers to new phones to keep them as customers to maintain as many cellular subscribers as it can during the remaining term of its distribution agreement with AT&T (agreement expires November 2014). Due to the greatly increased subsidies required by offering the iPhone, subscribers choosing to activate an iPhone have a higher cost of acquisition, requiring a longer time to become profitable to the Company. The Company’s plan is to enhance and expand its wholesale distribution business to improve profitability of the Company and believes that securing a variety of key supplier relationships over the past several months, including the agreement with TCT Mobile Multinational, Limited to sell and distribute their Alcatel One Touch branded cellular phones, and the hiring of key personnel with experience in large scale cellular equipment distribution provides a foundation upon which to expand the Company’s wholesale business. However, to be successful, the Company must solve its current liquidity issues and secure a new lender that is capable of providing the necessary continuing financing to fund this growth. No assurance can be provided the Company will be able to increase sales or margins in its wholesale business as a result of any of the distribution agreements it has secured even if the appropriate working capital is made available to the Company. Nor can there be any assurance provided that the wholesale business units can be grown quickly enough to provide sufficient earnings to offset the expected loss of earnings from the cellular business. Therefore, with new financing in place, the Company will be prepared to continue to reduce costs to the levels necessary to meet its financial obligations as they come due. Without new financing, the Company cannot meet its current financial obligations. 10 As a result of the above conditions and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, there exists substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. Since October 2010, the State of Texas (the “State”) has been conducting a sales and use tax audit of the Company’s subsidiary, PCI, covering the period from January 2006 to October 2009. On March 27, 2012, the Company received a summary of the errors identified by the State auditor on selected billing statements and invoices, which further included computations of these errors extrapolated over the respective total billings and purchases for the audit period. Based on the information provided by the State, the Company recorded a sales and use tax liability of approximately $1,850,000 including approximately $443,000 in penalties and interest that were expected to be assessed by the State in its 3rd quarter ending February 29, 2012 consolidated financial statements. On June 11, 2012, the Company received notice from the State the sales and use tax audit was complete. As a result of the final audit assessments provided by the State, the Company adjusted its sales and use tax liability related to the tax audit to reflect a total obligation of approximately $1,880,000, including approximately $466,000 in assessed penalties and interest. The sales and use tax assessed by the State, before penalties and interest, totaled approximately $1,414,000 for the tax audit period, and was comprised of approximately $6,000 of use tax related to fixed asset purchases, $126,000 of use tax due on various services purchased by the Company, $637,000 of under billed sales taxes related to cellular services billings and $645,000 of under billed sales taxes related to other billings. Based on the results of the recently completed Texas sales tax audit, the Company believes it may have additional financial exposure for certain periods following October 2009, the last month covered under the current sales tax audit, in the event that PCI is audited in the future by the State. Similar tax computations were applied to the Company’s cellular billings through November 2010, the point at which PCI made substantial system and process changes to correct these tax computations. Other sales and use tax issues have been identified during the course of the sales tax audit and were corrected at various dates thereafter. The Company has estimated its potential sales and use tax exposure to be between $311,000 and $437,000, including estimated penalties and interest of approximately $45,000 and $61,000, respectively, through May 31, 2012. This estimate covers all periods following the completed sales tax audit period through the date that each identified tax issue was corrected by the Company. Since the Company cannot predict the outcome of a future sales tax audit, it has recorded the low end of the estimated loss in its consolidated financials as of May 31, 2012. The Company’s estimate of the low end of the range of potential liability considered only the errors identified in the completed sales tax audit whereas the high end of the range was estimated using a conservative application of sales tax rates on the majority of the cellular services billed from November 2010, the end of the recently completed audit period, through October 2011, the month that the identified tax issues were remediated by the Company. The actual liability, as a result of a future tax audit, could fall outside of our estimated range due to items that could be identified during an audit but not considered by us. The Company currently does not have sufficient cash on hand to pay the assessed tax obligation and has currently requested the State for a redetermination hearing. If the Company is successful in securing financing on the tax obligation, the assets of the Company will likely become subject to a tax lien, which could have the effect of limiting our ability to secure new financing. If the Company is not successful in obtaining a payment plan with the State and cannot secure new debt financing, the Company would likely be unable to meet its tax obligation and might be forced to seek protection from its creditors. Furthermore, the State of Texas has noticed the Company that the entity, Teletouch Communications, Inc., will be subject to a sales and use tax audit scheduled to begin on October 15, 2012 and will cover the period June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2012. This will include a sales and use tax audit of the Company’s two-way business and corporate purchases. The Company does not anticipate the audit to be as complex as the PCI audit since the two-way business has significantly fewer transactions than the PCI business units. The previous sales and use tax audit assessment for Teletouch Communications, Inc. was approximately $47,000, including $11,000 in penalties and interest and covered the period June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2008. As of the date of this Report, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the future Teletouch audit and the amount of a potential obligation cannot be reasonable estimated. In addition, Teletouch can provide no assurance the results of the upcoming audit will be similar to its previous sales tax audit. 11 We are exposed to credit risk, collection risk and payment delinquencies on accounts receivable. None of our outstanding accounts receivables are secured. Our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of services or products. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will continue to effectively limit collection risk and avoid losses. To date, our losses on uncollectible receivables have been within historical trends and expectations but due to continuing poor economic conditions, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed, and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations. Additionally, a sizable number of our cellular subscribers have transferred their services to AT&T to purchase the iPhone or other services that we have not been allowed to offer until this fiscal year. Balances due to us by customers that transfer to AT&T have proven difficult to collect once their service has been established with AT&T directly. Both of these factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly restrict our ability to generate revenues or obtain debt or equity financing. The global economy continues to experience volatility and uncertainty. Such conditions could reduce demand for our products and services which would significantly jeopardize our ability to achieve our sales targets. These conditions could also affect our potential strategic partners, which, in turn, could make it much more difficult to execute a strategic collaboration. Moreover, volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products and services in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause customers to reduce purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers’ ability to supply sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to fulfill sales orders. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers, investors, and business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm sales, profitability and results of operations. Economic downturns or other adverse economic changes (local, regional, or national) can also hurt our financial performance in the form of lower interest earned on investments and / or could result in losses of portions of principal in our investment portfolio. 12 We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management, including sales representatives. To date, we have retained highly qualified senior and mid-level management team but cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully retain all of them, or be successful in recruiting additional personnel as needed. Our inability to do so will materially and adversely affect the business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to maintain and provide additional services to our customers depends upon our ability to hire and retain business development and technical personnel with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in telecommunications industry. Competition for such personnel is intense. We are experiencing increasing competition in the marketplace for our cellular subscribers, and our primary competitor, AT&T, has significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. In the market for telecommunications products and services, we face competition from several major carrier competitors, but most notably from our primary supplier, AT&T. AT&T continues to develop and is expected to continue developing products and services that may entice our cellular subscribers to move their services to AT&T directly. If we are not able to participate in these products and services or even if these products and services are made available to the Company and we are unable to convince customers to remain with PCI over AT&T, we could continue to lose subscribers to AT&T and possibly at an accelerated rate in the future. Under the terms of our recent settlement with AT&T, the Company will receive compensation for subscribers that it loses to AT&T, but accelerated losses of subscribers would negatively affect our expected earnings. We cannot assure that we will be able to slow the rate of attrition of our cellular subscribers to AT&T or that AT&T will make any of its new products or services available to us in the future. AT&T has substantially greater capital resources, larger marketing staffs and more experience in commercializing products and services. The losses of our cellular subscribers to AT&T to date has had a material impact on our financial condition and if we are unable to slow the subscriber losses or develop new revenues and margins to offset these losses, we could be forced to make further significant cost reductions in the business to sustain our operations, which in turn may only accelerate our losses of revenues. An accelerated reduction in our cellular subscriber base could have a material adverse effect on our business. The launch of the iPhone in June 2007 and AT&T’s refusal to allow us sell the iPhone has resulted in a steady decline in our cellular subscriber base. This decline in our cellular subscriber base was accelerated as a result of the expiration of our primary DFW distribution agreement with AT&T in August 2009. If AT&T releases new products or services that are not made available to us, losses of cellular subscribers could continue or increase. If any of these products or services become of extraordinary demand or are required by consumers or businesses, the result could be an acceleration of cellular subscriber losses to AT&T. Although we maintain contracts varying from one to two years with our current cellular customers, the customer may voluntarily elect to transfer to another carrier, including AT&T, at any time and incur a penalty fee. Due to the recent settlement with AT&T, the Company will receive compensation for the subscribers it loses to AT&T until the expiration of the distribution agreement in November 2014. Although the Company will be paid for each lost subscriber, the transfer fee it will receive from AT&T will be less than the amount of compensation the Company would otherwise expect to receive if it retained the customer through the November 2014 expiration of the current distribution agreement with AT&T. Expenses related to our cellular operations will be required to be adjusted accordingly due to the expected declining subscriber base, but cellular revenues are predicted to decline to such a level that we will have to rely upon our wholesale distribution business to replace the revenue and income loss and to cover overhead costs. We can provide no assurance that our wholesale distribution business can ramp up quickly enough to generate sufficient revenue and profits to cover the predicted losses in the cellular business nor can we provide any assurance that that business unit could cover the losses sustained from a rapidly declining cellular subscriber base. We also can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. 13 Our common stock is not traded on a national securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and is not heavily traded, which may increase price quotation volatility and could limit the liquidity of the common stock, all of which may adversely affect the market price of the common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could adversely affect current and future shareholders. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, as in the stock market in general, and the market for OTC Bulletin Board quoted stocks in particular. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions and terms in the industry in which we operate or sales of our common stock, investor perceptions of our company, the success of competitive products, services or technologies or regulatory developments. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, because our stock is thinly trading, there is a disparity between the bid and the asked price that may not be indicative of the stock’s true value. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is and has historically been significantly less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. The sale of our common stock as a result of transactions by our former parent company, TLLP may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and the sale of these shares of common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In July 2011, the Company registered up to 20,499,001 shares of our common stock that may be sold into the market by certain shareholders that had purchased shares of our common stock from our former parent company TLLP. Included in this registration were 12,000,000 shares that were registered for TLLP. As a result of the transfer of the majority of TLLP’s holdings of Teletouch’s common stock on August 11, 2011 to allow TLLP to settle certain of its debt obligations, in October 2011, the Company registered up to 32,000,999 shares of our common stock that may be sold into the market by certain shareholders. Included in this registration were 25,000,000 shares transferred by TLLP to its lenders and 4,350,000 shares already held by these same lenders. The shares already registered may be sold immediately or over an extended period. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock by these shareholders may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. These shareholders may sell all, some or none of those shares. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by these shareholders, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. 14 We may issue additional equity or debt securities, which may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used, and may likely use or continue to use, our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock to fund working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If additional equity securities are issued, particularly during times when our common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Our publicly filed reports are subject to review by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. We could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 