Item 1A. Risk Factors Amounts due under the Company’s revolving credit facility with its senior lender could accelerate as a result of a continued decline in the Company’s cellular subscriber base and the related assets that have been borrowed against which could result in an operating cash deficiency and an inability to continue servicing the debt obligation. The Company historically relied upon Thermo Credit, LLC (“Thermo”) to provide cash availability under its revolving credit facility to fund its working capital needs including purchasing inventory when vendor credit terms are not available and for financing sales made by the Company on extended credit terms. This facility was designed to provide sufficient cash availability for the Company in times when the underlying assets pledged as collateral were growing. The primary asset pledged as collateral is the Company’s customer accounts receivable. The launch of the iPhone in June 2007 and AT&T’s refusal to allow the Company to sell the iPhone has resulted in a steady decline in the Company’s subscriber base, the related billings and accounts receivable. This decline in the subscriber base and related billings was accelerated as a result of the expiration of the Company’s primary DFW distribution agreement with AT&T in August 2009, which ended the Company’s ability to add new Subscribers and further prevented the Company from allowing any AT&T subscribers in the DFW market desiring to change their billing services to the Company from transferring their cellular service to the Company. Prior to August 2009, transfers of customers from AT&T had partially offset some of the losses of customers leaving to purchase the iPhone elsewhere. This decline in cellular billings and accounts receivable has directly reduced the borrowings available against accounts receivable under the credit facility and has had the indirect effect of reducing the borrowings available against other assets, including inventory, intangibles, property and equipment, because borrowings on non-accounts receivable assets are limited to a fixed percentage of the total borrowings outstanding. The losses of cellular subscribers coupled with periodic declines in accounts receivable in the wholesale distribution business has resulted in the Company’s being periodically over-advanced on its facility. The Company had previously borrowed the maximum amount available against its assets for certain debt restructuring transactions in addition to its working capital needs so a portion of the borrowed funds are not held in cash or other short term assets for servicing any potential accelerated repayment obligations it may encounter. To date, Thermo has allowed the Company to remain over-advanced on the facility from time-to-time, extended certain repayment terms, modified scheduled debt amortization and has continued to allow the inclusion of certain assets in the computation of its borrowing base, which in turn has allowed the Company to meet its obligations under the facility. If Thermo were to have difficulty with the terms of the existing facility or exclude or modify certain advances allowed against assets currently included in the borrowing, the Company could potentially experience operating cash deficiencies up to and including being unable to meet its obligations under this revolving credit facility. In addition, if Thermo does not renew the Company’s debt agreement in January 2012, the Company would have to secure new financing to re-finance its current obligation due to Thermo and meet its ongoing cash needs. Assuming the Company were able to find a new senior lender, it can provide no assurance the terms of the new financing would be as favorable as these provided by Thermo or that a new lender would be as accommodating to the varying cash needs of the Company during the term of the loan. We can provide no assurance that Thermo will renew the current facility, but do note that the initial loans with Thermo from August 2006, have been modified, expanded and extended on several occasions to date. To the extent that the Company was unable to refinance this debt, it would likely not have the means to fully repay Thermo from the cash on hand or generated from operations resulting in the possibility of a foreclosure on all of the assets of the Company. 6 An accelerated reduction in our cellular subscriber base could have a material adverse effect on our business. The launch of the iPhone in June 2007 and AT&T’s refusal to allow the Company to sell the iPhone has resulted in a steady decline in the Company’s subscriber base (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings for discussion of the action brought against AT&T related to the iPhone and other matters). This decline in the Company’s customer base was accelerated as a result of the expiration of the Company’s primary DFW distribution agreement with AT&T in August 2009. The Company continues to battle the losses of Subscribers to AT&T and is currently seeking relief through a binding arbitration process that it initiated in September 2009. As AT&T continues to release new products or services that are not made available to the Company, losses of cellular Subscribers will continue. If any of these products or services become in extraordinary demand or are required by consumers or businesses, the result could be an acceleration of cellular subscriber losses to AT&T. Although the Company does maintain contracts varying from one to two years with its current customer base for cellular service, the customer may voluntarily elect to transfer to another carrier, including AT&T, at any time and incur a penalty fee. If expenses related to the Company’s cellular operations are not adjusted accordingly due to a declining Subscriber base, the Company will rely upon its other business units to replace the revenue and income loss from its cellular operations. We can provide no assurance that any of our other existing business units could generate enough revenue in a timely manner to cover the losses sustained from a rapidly declining cellular subscriber base. We also can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. 7 Teletouch may be unsuccessful in the arbitration with AT&T and could incur a significant obligation from the outcome of the arbitration or an unfavorable outcome from the arbitration could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Since July 2007, the Company has attempted to negotiate with AT&T for the purpose of obviating the need for legal action. However, such attempts have failed. Therefore, on September 30, 2009, the Company, through the legal entity Progressive Concepts, Inc. commenced an arbitration proceeding against New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC and AT&T Mobility Texas LLC (collectively, “AT&T”) seeking at least $100 million in damages. The binding arbitration was commenced to seek relief for damages incurred as AT&T has prevented PCI from selling the popular iPhone and other “AT&T exclusive” products and services that PCI is and has been contractually entitled to provide to its customers under distribution agreements between PCI and AT&T. In response to PCI’s initiating its legal action, AT&T filed certain counterclaims in the arbitration, including seeking monetary damages for equipment transactions between the parties and certain alleged breaches of the distribution agreement by the Company. If the Company does not prevail in its claim against AT&T, then the expected result is that the Company would continue to service its Subscribers under the distribution agreement and would not be awarded any monetary damages. While the Company believes that the counterclaims are baseless, if AT&T prevails in its counterclaims during the arbitration, the Company could potentially be held liable for certain payments to AT&T or it could be ruled that the Company had defaulted on certain terms and conditions of the distribution agreement as a result of actions alleged in these counterclaims. We can provide no assurance that the Company will prevail in its arbitration against AT&T or be able to defend against the counterclaims raised by AT&T or pay any obligations due to AT&T in the event they were to prevail in any of their counterclaims. Teletouch’s parent company may be unable to meet its future financial obligations. Prior to the acquisition of PCI in August 2006, TLLP, Teletouch’s parent company, assumed all of the remaining institutional debt of PCI, whereby the senior debt obligations formerly at PCI were transferred to TLLP as senior debt obligations and the subordinated debt obligations of PCI were partially settled by the issuance of Teletouch’s common stock owned by TLLP with the balance converted to redeemable Series A preferred units of TLLP. To secure the senior debt obligation, TLLP pledged all of its assets, which consist primarily of its holding of approximately 80% of the outstanding common stock of Teletouch. When the senior debt originally matured in August 11, 2007, TLLP did not have sufficient cash or other means to repay this debt and was successful in negotiating an initial extension of the maturity date through October 11, 2007. Subsequent extensions were granted by the senior debt holder to TLLP extending the maturity date through December 15, 2010. TLLP is a holding company with no operations with a minimal amount of cash on hand and may be dependent upon selling a sufficient number of shares it owns in Teletouch common stock or upon the cash flows of Teletouch through the receipt of future cash dividends to service its outstanding debt obligations. The Company has no current agreements with TLLP to fund cash obligations nor does it have any current plans to declare dividends in order to allow TLLP to meet the debt obligations. TLLP’s management has represented to the Company that it is working to refinance this debt to allow additional time for the value of its Teletouch common stock to appreciate in order for it to be able to sell a sufficient number of shares to repay its debt obligations. If TLLP is unsuccessful in repaying its obligations and its lenders foreclose on Teletouch’s common stock owned by TLLP and become the majority shareholders of Teletouch, then there is a risk that these lenders could vote through matters that may not be in the best interest of the shareholders of Teletouch as a whole. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Item 