ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the most significant of these factors include excess tractor and trailer capacity in the trucking industry, declines in the resale value of used equipment, strikes or other work stoppages, increases in interest rates, fuel taxes, tolls, and license and registration fees, and rising costs of healthcare. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also are affected by recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers' inventory levels, and downturns in customers' business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers, and regions of the country, such as California, Texas, and the Southeast, where we have a significant amount of business. The risks associated with these factors are heightened in the current, severe recession facing the U.S. economy. Some of the principal risks are as follows: • We may experience a reduction in overall freight levels, which may impair our asset utilization; • Certain of our customers are facing credit issues and could experience cash flow problems that may lead to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies, and other financial hardships that could result in even lower freight demand and may require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts; • Freight patterns may change as supply chains are redesigned, resulting in an imbalance between our capacity and our customers' freight demand; • Customers may bid out freight or select competitors that offer lower rates from among existing choices in an attempt to lower their costs, and we might be forced to lower our rates or lose freight; and • We may be forced to accept more freight from freight brokers, where freight rates are typically lower, or may be forced to incur more non-revenue miles to obtain loads. In addition, it is not possible to predict the effects of actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state, heightened security requirements, or other related events. Such events, however, could negatively impact the economy and consumer confidence in the United States. Such events could also have a materially adverse effect on our future results of operations. We may not be successful in improving our profitability. In mid-2005, we undertook a strategic plan designed to improve our profitability. Among other things, this plan included changes to items such as the customer base, rate structure, routes served, driver domiciles, management, reporting structure, and operating procedures. These changes, and others that we did not expect, have presented, and are expected to continue to present, significant challenges, particularly in light of weak freight demand and increased fuel prices that have persisted since the second half of 2006, as well as the negative impact economic conditions have had on freight rates and volumes since mid-2008. Despite our efforts to execute the strategic plan, we experienced a net loss in 2009 and also may experience a net loss in 2010. If we are unable to improve our profitability, then our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our Credit Facility and other financing arrangements contain certain covenants, restrictions, and requirements, and we may be unable to comply with the covenant, restrictions, and requirements. A default could result in the acceleration of all or part of our outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. We have an $85.0 million Credit Facility with a group of banks and numerous other financing arrangements. The Credit Facility contains certain restrictions and covenants relating to, among other things, dividends, liens, acquisitions and dispositions outside of the ordinary course of business, affiliate transactions, and a fixed charge coverage ratio. On February 25, 2010, the Company obtained an amendment to its Credit Facility, which, among other things (i) amended certain defined terms in the Credit Facility, (ii) retroactively to January 1, 2010, amended the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant through June 30, 2010, which prevented a default of that covenant for January 2010, (iii) restarted the look back requirements of the fixed coverage ratio covenant beginning on January 1, 2010, and (iv) required the Company to order updated appraisals for certain real estate described in the Credit Facility. In consideration of these changes, we agreed to certain fees in connection with the amendment. We have had difficulty meeting budgeted results in the past. If we are unable to meet budgeted results or otherwise comply with our Credit Facility, we may be unable to obtain a further amendment or waiver under our Credit Facility, or doing so may result in additional fees. See "Material Debt Agreements" below for additional information. Certain other financing arrangements contain certain restrictions and covenants, as well. If we fail to comply with any of our financing arrangement covenants, restrictions, and requirements, we will be in default under the relevant agreement, which could cause cross-defaults under our other financing arrangements. In the event of any such default, if we failed to obtain replacement financing, amendments to, or waivers under the applicable financing arrangements, our lenders could cease making further advances, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable, fail to renew letters of credit, impose significant restrictions and requirements on our operations, institute foreclosure procedures against their collateral, or impose significant fees and transaction costs. If acceleration occurs, the current credit market crisis may make it difficult or expensive to refinance the accelerated debt or we may have to issue equity securities, which would dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing is made available to us, the current lack of available credit and consequent more stringent borrowing terms may mean that credit is not available to us on acceptable terms. A default under our financing arrangements could cause a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our substantial indebtedness and capital and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our industry or business. As a result of our level of debt, capital leases, operating lease obligations, and encumbered assets: • Our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions and competitive pressures is heightened; • We will continue to be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to operating lease payments and repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes; • Our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry will be limited; • Our profitability is sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates because some of our debt obligations are subject to variable interest rates, and future borrowings and lease financing arrangements will be affected by any such fluctuations; • Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes may be limited; and • We may be required to issue additional equity securities to raise funds, which would dilute the ownership position of our stockholders. Our financing obligations could negatively impact our future operations, our ability to satisfy our capital needs, or our ability to engage in other business activities. We also cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, hedging activities, and the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments, and surcharge collection and surcharge policies approved by customers may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Fuel is one of our largest operating expenses. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political, weather, and other factors beyond our control each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences and often costs more on the West Coast, where we have significant operations. From time-to-time, we use hedging contracts and volume purchase arrangements to attempt to limit the effect of price fluctuations. We may be forced to make cash payments under the hedging arrangements. We use a fuel surcharge program to recapture a portion of the increases in fuel prices over a base rate negotiated with our customers. Our fuel surcharge program does not protect us against the full effect of increases in fuel prices. The terms of each customer's fuel surcharge program vary and certain customers have sought to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. A failure to improve our fuel price protection through these measures, increases in fuel prices, or a shortage of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure, which could significantly increase the volatility of, and decrease the amount of, our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense could reduce our earnings and make our earnings more volatile. We self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure and related expenses. We accrue amounts for liabilities based on our assessment of claims that arise and our insurance coverage for the periods in which the claims arise, and we evaluate and revise these accruals from time-to-time based on additional information. Due to our significant self-insured amounts, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims and the risk of being required to accrue or pay additional amounts if our estimates are revised or the claims ultimately prove to be more severe than originally assessed. Historically, we have had to significantly adjust our reserves on several occasions, and future significant adjustments may occur. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. If any claim was to exceed our coverage, we would bear the excess, in addition to our other self-insured amounts. Our insurance and claims expense could increase when our current coverage expires, or we could raise our self-insured retention. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. Our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to again raise our self-insured retention or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, if we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage, or if we have to increase our reserves again. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to improve our profitability. These factors include: • We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers, railroads, intermodal companies, and other transportation companies, many of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. • Many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain significant growth in our business. • Many of our customers are other transportation companies, and they may decide to transport their own freight. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting "core carriers" as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • The trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates. • Economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. Generally, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, and our customers may not continue to use our services or could reduce their use of our services. For some of our customers, we have entered into multi-year contracts, and the rates we charge may not remain advantageous. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. Increases in driver compensation or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability. Like many truckload carriers, we experience substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including independent contractors. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the cost of fuel, insurance, and tractors, the available pool of independent contractor drivers has been declining. Regulatory requirements, including the new Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative (discussed below), and an improvement in the economy could reduce the number of eligible drivers or force us to pay more to attract and retain drivers. A shortage of qualified drivers and intense competition for drivers from other trucking companies will create difficulties in increasing the number of our drivers, including independent contractor drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers and independent contractors is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver and independent contractor compensation in future periods. In addition, we and our industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. Our high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing revenue equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, adjust our compensation packages, increase the number of our tractors without drivers, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in regulations or increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S., Canadian, and Mexican agencies. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the United States DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to U.S. and Canadian regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the EPA, and the DHS, also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS The DOT, through the FMCSA, imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. New rules that limit driver hours-of-service were adopted, effective January 4, 2004, and then modified, effective October 1, 2005 (the "2005 Rules"). In July 2007, a federal appeals court vacated portions of the 2005 Rules. Two of the key portions that were vacated include the expansion of the driving day from 10 hours to 11 hours, and the "34-hour restart," which allowed drivers to restart calculations of the weekly on-duty time limits after the driver had at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. The court indicated that, in addition to other reasons, it vacated these two portions of the 2005 Rules because FMCSA failed to provide adequate data supporting its decision to increase the driving day and provide for the 34-hour restart. In November 2008, following the submission of additional data by FMCSA and a series of appeals and related court rulings, FMCSA published its final rule, which retains the 11 hour driving day and the 34-hour restart (the "Final Rule"). However, advocacy groups have continued to challenge the Final Rule and on October 26, 2009, the FMCSA agreed pursuant to a settlement agreement with certain advocacy groups that the Final Rule on driver hours-of-service would not take effect pending the publication of a new Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Under the settlement agreement, the FMCSA will submit the draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to the Office of Management and Budget by July 2010, and the FMCSA will issue a final rule by 2012. The current hours-of-service rules, adopted in 2005, will remain in effect during the rulemaking proceedings. In December 2009, the FMCSA issued a notice soliciting data and research information the FMCSA may consider in drafting the forthcoming Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. We are unable to predict what form the new rules may take, how a court may rule on such challenges to such rules, and to what extent the FMCSA might attempt to materially revise the rules under the current presidential administration. On the whole, however, we believe any modifications to the current rules will decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. The FMCSA's new Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative introduces a new enforcement and compliance model, which implements driver standards in addition to the Company standards currently in place. Under the new regulations, the methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating will be expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier's drivers. Implementation of the new regulation is set for July 1, 2010, and enforcement will begin in late 2010. As a result of these new regulations, including the expanded methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating, there may be an adverse effect on our DOT safety rating. The Company currently has a satisfactory DOT rating, which is the highest available rating. A conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating could adversely affect our business because some of our customer contracts may require a satisfactory DOT safety rating, and a conditional or unsatisfactory rating could negatively impact or restrict our operations. The new regulations also may result in a reduced number of eligible drivers. If current or potential drivers are eliminated due to the Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010 initiative, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers. On December 26, 2007, the FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rule Making in the Federal Register regarding minimum requirements for entry level driver training. Under the proposed rule, a commercial driver's license applicant would be required to present a valid driver training certificate obtained from an accredited institution or program. Entry-level drivers applying for a Class A commercial driver's license would be required to complete a minimum of 120 hours of training, consisting of 76 classroom hours and 44 driving hours. The current regulations do not require a minimum number of training hours and require only classroom education. Drivers who obtain their first commercial driver's license during the three-year period after the FMCSA issues a final rule would be exempt. The FMCSA has not established a deadline for issuing the final rule, but the comment period expired on May 23, 2008. If the rule is approved as written, this rule could materially affect the number of potential new drivers entering the industry and, accordingly, negatively affect our results of operations. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, of the DHS has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS On December 1, 2008, the FMCSA issued a final rule that will require CDL holders to provide an original or current copy of the medical examiners certification to their State Driver Licensing Agency. This action is the preamble to merge the CDL and the Medical Examination Certificate into a single electronic record. We are unable to predict the effect of this rule on our industry, but we expect that this rule could increase costs and potentially could decrease productivity and the availability of qualified CDL drivers. Some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle, in order to reduce exhaust emissions. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers' behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle, or face a decrease in productivity. In general, the increasing burden of regulation raises our costs and lowers our efficiency. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs on to us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our Credit Facility, proceeds under our financing facilities, and leases of revenue equipment. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. We currently have trade-in or fixed residual agreements with certain equipment suppliers concerning a portion of our tractor fleet. If the suppliers refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements or if we decline to purchase the relevant number of replacement units from the suppliers, we may suffer a financial loss upon the disposal of our equipment. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in our acquisition strategy. We made ten acquisitions between 1996 and 2006. Accordingly, acquisitions have provided a substantial portion of our growth. We may not have the financial capacity or be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our historical growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain above-ground bulk fuel storage tanks and fueling islands at three of our facilities. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010. Engines meeting new emissions standards generally cost more and require additional maintenance compared with earlier models. Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and could impair equipment productivity, lower fuel mileage, and increase our operating expenses. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values of these vehicles, could materially increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions, and some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the relatively near future. Regulations related to climate change that potentially impose restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases could adversely affect our operations and financial results. More specifically, legislative or regulatory actions related to climate change could adversely impact the Company by increasing our fuel costs and reducing fuel efficiency and could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades. Until the timing, scope, and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results; however, any future regulation could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. Increased prices, reduced productivity, and scarcity of financing for new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to higher prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, due, in part, to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to the pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive EPA emissions standards have required vendors to introduce new engines. Additional EPA mandated emissions standards became effective for newly manufactured trucks in January 2010. Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and could impair equipment productivity, lower fuel mileage, and increase our operating expenses. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values realized from the disposition of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations as the regulations become effective. In addition, our financial results and shrinking capacity of lenders and lessors that provide tractor and trailer financing have made it increasingly difficult for us to finance acquisitions of new equipment. As a result, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for equipment and incur additional expenses and related financing costs for the foreseeable future. We have a combination of agreements and non-binding statements of indicative trade values covering the terms of trade-in commitments from our primary equipment vendors for disposal of a portion of our revenue equipment. The prices we expect to receive under these arrangements may be higher than the prices we would receive in the open market. We may suffer a financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if these vendors refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements, if we fail to enter into definitive agreements consistent with the indicative trade values, if we fail to enter into similar arrangements in the future, or if we do not purchase the required number of replacement units from the vendors. Near the end of 2008, we lowered our tractor disposal proceeds expectations in response to a combination of sharply lower economic indicators, a worsening credit market, and significantly lower prices received for disposals of our used revenue equipment. Based on these factors and the expected remaining useful lives of some of our equipment, we recorded impairments of the carrying values of most of the tractors and trailers recorded as held for sale that were expected to be traded or sold in 2009 as well as most of our in-use tractors that were expected to be traded or sold in 2009 or 2010. Although we do not expect to be required to make any future cash expenditures as a result of this impairment charge, cash proceeds of future disposals of revenue equipment are anticipated to be lower than expected prior to this impairment charge. Additional impairments of the carrying values of our revenue equipment could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of the following key employees: David R. Parker, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President; Joey B. Hogan, our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and President of our Covenant subsidiary; Richard B. Cribbs, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Tony Smith, our President of SRT; James Brower, our President of Star; M. David Hughes, our Senior Vice President, Corporate Treasurer, and Covenant subsidiary's Senior Vice President of Fleet Management and Procurement; and R.H. Lovin, Jr., our Covenant subsidiary's Executive Vice President of Administration. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of the employees referenced above. The loss of any of their services could negatively impact our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of improving our profitability. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Chief Executive Officer and President and his wife control a large portion of our stock and have substantial control over us, which could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President, David Parker, and his wife, Jacqueline Parker, beneficially own approximately 40% of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock and 100% of our Class B common stock. On all matters with respect to which our stockholders have a right to vote, including the election of directors, each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote, while each share of Class B common stock is entitled to two votes. All outstanding shares of Class B common stock are owned by the Parkers and are convertible to Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis at the election of the Parkers or automatically upon transfer to someone outside of the Parker family. This voting structure gives the Parkers approximately 48% of the voting power of all of our outstanding stock. The Parkers are able to substantially influence decisions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our entire board of directors, the adoption or extension of anti-takeover provisions, mergers, and other business combinations. This concentration of ownership could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay for the Class A common stock, and could allow the Parkers to prevent or delay a change of control, which other stockholders may favor. The interests of the Parkers may conflict with the interests of other holders of Class A common stock, and they may take actions affecting us with which other stockholders disagree. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems and a system failure or inability to effectively upgrade our information systems could cause a significant disruption to our business and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems, including financial reporting and operating systems, in operating our business. Our operating system is critical to understanding customer demands, accepting and planning loads, dispatching equipment and drivers, and billing and collecting for our services. Our financial reporting system is critical to producing accurate and timely financial statements and analyzing business information to help us manage effectively. We have begun a multi-year project to upgrade the hardware and software of our information systems. If any of our critical information systems fail or become otherwise unavailable, whether as a result of the upgrade project or otherwise, we would have to perform the functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to manage our fleet efficiently, to respond to customers' requests effectively, to maintain billing and other records reliably, and to bill for services and prepare financial statements accurately or in a timely manner. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of an unforeseeable and extreme catastrophe. Any system failure, delays, or complications in the upgrade, security breach, or other system failure could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, or impact our ability to manage our operations and report our financial performance, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. If our stock does not continue to be traded on an established exchange or our public float is diminished, an active trading market may not exist and the trading price of our stock may decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Nasdaq's continued listing standards for our common stock require, among other things, that (i) the closing bid price for our common stock not fall below $1.00; (ii) we have at least 400 beneficial holders and/or holders of record of our common stock; (iii) our stockholders' equity not fall below $10 million; (iv) we have more than 750,000 shares held by the public (excluding officers, directors, and beneficial holders of 10% or more) with a market value of at least $5.0 million; and (v) we have at least two registered and active dealers meeting the requirements set forth in the standards. A failure to meet these continued listing requirements is generally required to exist for a period of 10 to 30 consecutive business days (depending upon the type of failure) before a deficiency will be determined to exist. If our common stock was threatened with delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements or we may pursue other strategic alternatives to meet the continuing listing standards. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, we may choose to voluntarily delist from NASDAQ, or "go dark", in the event we believe we may be subject to a delisting proceeding or for any other reason our Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of our stockholders. If our common stock is delisted by, or we voluntarily delist from, NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the NYSE Alternext U.S., the OTC Bulletin Board, or the Pink OTC Markets. In such an event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there also would likely be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. The stock market has recently experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. In addition, as a result of our small public float and limited trading volume, our common stock may be more susceptible to volatility arising from any of these factors. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some customers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue also can be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase due to declining fuel efficiency because of engine idling and due to harsh weather creating higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs. We also could suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. Weather and other seasonal events could adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 