Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Before you invest in any of our securities, you should be aware of various risks to which we may be subject, including those described below. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before you decide whether to purchase any of our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results have been and will continue to be subject to fluctuations. Historically, our quarterly operating results have varied substantially from quarter to quarter, and we anticipate that this will continue. This fluctuation occurs principally because our revenues vary from quarter to quarter, while a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based on anticipated levels of revenues. While the variability of our revenues is partially due to factors that would influence the quarterly results of any company, our business is particularly susceptible to quarterly variations because: • we typically record a substantial amount of our revenues in the last weeks of the last month of a quarter, rather than evenly throughout the quarter; • our customers typically wait until their fourth quarter, the end of their annual budget cycle, before deciding whether to purchase new software; • economic activity in Europe generally slows during the summer months; • customers may delay purchase decisions in anticipation of (i) changes to our product line, (ii) new products or platforms, (iii) product enhancements or (iv) in response to announced pricing changes by us or our competitors; • our revenues typically vary based on the mix of products and services and the amount of consulting services that our customers order, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future; • we depend, in part, on large orders and any delay in closing a large order may result in the realization of potentially significant net license fees being postponed from one quarter to the next; and • our revenues are typically sensitive to the timing of offers of new products that successfully compete with our products on the basis of functionality, price or otherwise, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. General market conditions and other domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also affect our quarterly revenues and operating results. For these reasons, quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability. While we were profitable in our most recent quarters and fiscal year, our ability to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis will be affected by changes in our business and the demand for our products. We expect our operating expenses to increase as our business grows, and we anticipate that we will make investments in our business. Therefore, our results of operations will be harmed if our revenues do not increase at a rate equal to or greater than the rate of our expenditures or if our revenues are insufficient for us to sustain profitability. Our revenues may be unpredictable due to the recent release of our Business Objects XI product, which integrates our existing Business Objects and Crystal Decisions product lines, and the expected end of life of our separate, existing Business Objects and Crystal Decisions products. In the past, customers have deferred purchase decisions as the expected release date of our new products has approached. In addition, customers have generally delayed making purchases of the new product to permit them to undertake a more complete evaluation of the new product or until industry analysts have commented upon the products. We released the Microsoft Windows version of Business Objects XI in January 2005. By late 2005, we also released BusinessObjects XI, release 2, for all supported languages. Business Objects XI could be particularly susceptible to deferred or delayed orders, since it represents the integration of our former stand-alone Business Objects and Crystal Decisions product lines. Some customers may delay purchasing Business Objects XI until later releases or until third party opinions regarding the product are widely available. Any customer hesitation could result in purchase delays from one quarter to the next, causing quarterly orders and associated shipments and revenues to vary more significantly during this transition than we have previously experienced. The impact on revenues of the introduction of Business Objects XI and release 2, may be exacerbated or reduced by normal seasonal spending patterns. Our customers can elect to continue to use stand-alone products for some time and we may not be able to convince them to adopt our combined product. As a result, we may have to continue to support multiple products for a period of time. In addition, we anticipate that the pattern of adoption of Business Objects XI and release 2, by existing customers, and the related impact on our revenues, may not be consistent with the patterns we have previously experienced because we have announced that the old Business Objects and Crystal Decisions’ products will transition to end of life over the next 18 months. Existing customers will be deciding whether and when to transition to the integrated Business Objects XI product, which may be viewed by them as a more significant decision about how to manage their business intelligence platform. We cannot anticipate whether the product transition will result in a prolonged adoption cycle for Business Objects XI and release 2, or what the impact will be on maintenance revenues for the existing Business Objects and Crystal Decisions’ products prior to their end of life. If we overestimate revenues, and are unable to sufficiently reduce our expenses in any quarter, this could have a negative impact on our quarterly results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into actual licensing revenues could prevent us from planning or budgeting accurately, and any resulting variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers’ purchases would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, which could then harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because our costs will be relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to reduce our expenses to avoid or minimize the negative impact on our quarterly results of operations if anticipated revenues are not realized. As a result, our quarterly results of operations could be worse than anticipated. 12 Table of Contents Changes to current accounting policies could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which is a body of guidance that is subject to interpretation or influence by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Until and including 2004, we also prepared financial statements in accordance with French GAAP, according to French law. Effective January 1, 2005, our consolidated French financial statements are prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards, or the IFRS, whereas our statutory financial statements continue to be prepared under French GAAP. The International Accounting Standards Board, which is the body formed to create the international standards, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board, have undertaken a convergence program to eliminate a variety of differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP. The most significant differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS applicable to us relate to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense, the accounting for deferred tax assets on certain intercompany transactions relating to the transfer of intercompany intellectual property rights between certain subsidiaries and the accounting for business combinations. For our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, our previously reported results were required to be restated in accordance with IFRS. The opening balance sheet as of January 1, 2004 and the balance sheet and income statement as of and for 2004 and, as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2005, prepared in accordance with IFRS, were filed on October 28, 2005 in the BALO in France. The opening balance sheet as of January 1, 2004, prepared in accordance with IFRS was filed on April 26, 2005 with the AMF in France in our 2004 Document de Référence under the No. R.05-049. Some of our more significant accounting policies that may in the future be affected by the changes in the accounting rules are as follows: • accounting for stock-based compensation; • accounting for business combinations; • accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets • accounting for uncertain tax positions; • earnings per share; and • software revenue recognition Changes in these or other rules, or scrutiny of current practices, may have a significant adverse effect on our reported operating results or the way in which we conduct our business. The requirement to expense stock options in our income statement could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results, and we do not know how the market will react to reduced earnings In December 2004, the final statement FAS 123R, Share-Based Payments, was issued. This final standard replaces the existing requirements and requires that all forms of share-based payments to employees, including employee stock options, employee stock purchase plans, warrants and restricted stock be treated the same as other forms of compensation by recognizing the related cost in the statements of income. FAS 123R requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value based method. FAS 123R became effective for us commencing with our fiscal periods beginning January 1, 2006. In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard, IFRS 2, “Share-Based Payment”, we have been required for our French consolidated financial statements to report the expense associated with stock-based compensation in our statements of income commencing on January 1, 2004. We anticipate our reported tax rate will be adversely affected by the adoption of the final standard to the extent to which we are unable to record a tax benefit on the stock-based compensation expense, other than the tax benefit for non qualified options of the US based employees. While most forms of stock-based compensation are non-cash charges and the expensing of stock-based awards will impact all companies who have stock-based compensation plans, we cannot predict how investors will view this additional expense or our management of this expense via our compensation policy related to stock-based awards and, as such, our stock price may decline. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we have not yet determined how, if at all, our compensation policy will change as a result of FAS 123R and cannot determine the effects, if any, on our hiring and retention of employees. If companies with whom we compete for employees do not change their compensation policies, we may no longer be competitive and may have difficulty hiring and retaining employees. Our market is highly competitive, which could harm our ability to sell products and services and reduce our market share. The market in which we compete is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by changing technology and evolving standards. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers. Increased competition may cause price reductions or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we may face competition from many companies with whom we have strategic relationships, including Hyperion Solutions Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, all of whom offer business intelligence products that compete with our products. For example, Microsoft has extended its SQL server business intelligence platform to include reporting capabilities which compete with our enterprise reporting solutions. These companies could bundle their business intelligence software with their other products at little or no cost, giving them a potential competitive advantage over us. Because our products will be specifically designed and targeted to the business intelligence software market, we may lose sales to competitors offering a broader range of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, acquisitions of or other strategic transactions by our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenues. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, some of our competitors may be more successful than we are in attracting and retaining customers. Moreover, some of our competitors, particularly companies that offer relational database management software systems, enterprise resource planning software systems and customer relationship management systems may have well established relationships with some of our existing and targeted customers. This competition could harm our ability to sell our products and services effectively, which may lead to lower prices for our products, reduced revenues and market share, and ultimately, reduced earnings. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, companies larger than ours could enter the market through internal expansion or by strategically aligning themselves with one of our competitors and providing products that cost less than our products. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future distributors, resellers, original equipment manufacturers or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to sell through these channels and reducing promotion of our products. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse effect on our business if they are unsuccessful. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies, technologies and product lines to complement our internally developed products. We expect that we will have a similar business strategy going forward. For example, in August 2005 and October 2005, we acquired SRC and Infommersion, respectively. In February 2006, we agreed to acquire FirstLogic. It is possible that the contemplated benefits of these or any future acquisitions may not materialize within the time periods or to the extent anticipated. Critical to the success of this strategy in the future and, ultimately, our business as a whole, is the orderly, effective integration of acquired businesses, technologies, product lines and employees into our organization. If this integration is unsuccessful, our business 14 Table of Contents will suffer. There is also the risk that our valuation assumptions and models for an acquired product or business may be overly optimistic or incorrect if customers do not demand the acquired company’s products to the extent we expect, the technology does not function as we expect or the technology we acquire is the subject of infringement or trade secret claims by third parties. We have strategic relationships with Microsoft, SAP and Oracle which, if terminated, could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. We have strategic relationships with Microsoft, SAP and Oracle that enable us to bundle our products with those of Microsoft, SAP and Oracle, and we are also developing certain utilities and products to be a part of their products. We have limited control, if any, as to whether Microsoft, SAP or Oracle will devote adequate resources to promoting and selling our products. For example, to date none of these partnerships has contributed significantly to our annual license revenues through these reseller activities. In addition, Microsoft, SAP and Oracle have designed their own business intelligence software and Microsoft is actively marketing its reporting product for its SQL server business intelligence platform. If Microsoft, SAP or Oracle reduces its efforts on our behalf or discontinues its relationship with us and instead develops a relationship with one of our competitors or increases its selling efforts of its own business intelligence software, our reputation as a technology partner with them could be damaged and our revenues and operating results could decline. We sell products only in the business intelligence software market; if sales of our products in this market decline, our operating results will be harmed. We generate substantially all of our revenues from licensing, support and services in conjunction with the sale of our products in the business intelligence software market. Accordingly, our future revenues and profits will depend significantly on our ability to further penetrate the business intelligence software market. If we are not successful in selling our products in our targeted market due to competitive pressures, technological advances by others or other reasons, our operating results will suffer. If the market in which we sell business intelligence software does not grow as anticipated, our future profitability could be negatively affected. The business intelligence software market is still evolving, and our success depends upon the continued growth of this market. Our potential customers may: • not fully value the benefits of using business intelligence products; • not achieve favorable results using business intelligence products; • experience technical difficulty in implementing business intelligence products; • decide to use other technologies, such as search engines, to obtain the required business intelligence for their users. These factors may cause the market for business intelligence software not to grow as quickly or become as large as we anticipate, which may adversely affect our revenues. Our software may have defects and errors that could lead to a loss of revenues or product liability claims. Our products and platforms use complex technologies and may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite extensive testing, we may not detect errors in our new products, platforms or product enhancements until after we have commenced commercial shipments. If defects and errors are discovered after commercial release of either new versions or enhancements of our products and platforms: • potential customers may delay purchases; • customers may react negatively, which could reduce future sales; 15 Table of Contents • our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; • we may have to defend product liability claims; • we may be required to indemnify our customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers or other resellers; • we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and • we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects and errors, which may result in the delay of new product releases or upgrades. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues, incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulties providing and managing large scale deployments, which could cause a decline or delay in recognition of our revenues and an increase in our expenses. We may have difficulty managing the timeliness of our large scale deployments and our internal allocation of personnel and resources. Any such difficulty could cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the number of new customers who purchase our products or services. This could cause a decline in or delay in recognition of revenues, and could cause us to increase our research and development and technical support costs, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we generally have long sales cycles for our large scale deployments. During a long sales cycle, events may occur that could affect the size, timing or completion of the order. For example, the potential customer’s budget and purchasing priorities may change, the economy may experience a downturn or new competing technology may enter the marketplace, any of which could reduce our revenues. Business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. A number of factors, including natural disasters, computer viruses or failure to successfully upgrade and improve operational systems to meet evolving business conditions, could disrupt our business, which could seriously harm our revenues or financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, some of our offices are located in potential earthquake or flood zones, which makes these offices, product development facilities and associated computer systems more susceptible to disruption. We currently have proprietary applications running key pieces of our manufacturing systems. These technologies were developed internally and we have only a small number of people who know and understand them. Should we lose those individuals before these systems can be replaced with non-proprietary solutions, we may experience business disruptions due to an inability to manufacture and ship product. In addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or temporarily disrupt our operations. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our own network. The costs to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems could be significant. The efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of our operations. We continually work to upgrade and enhance our computer systems and anticipate implementing several system upgrades during the coming years. Delay of such projects or the launch of a faulty application could harm our customer service levels. Failure to smoothly migrate existing systems to newer systems could cause business disruptions. Even short-term systems disruptions from any of the above mentioned or other causes could result in revenue disruptions, delayed product deliveries or customer service disruptions, which could result in decreases in revenues or increases in costs of operations. 16 Table of Contents While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. This requirement first became effective for the year ended December 31, 2004. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In addition, it is difficult for us to predict how long it will take to complete the assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting each year and we may not be able to complete the process on a timely basis. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our shares will be affected. We cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective or sufficient in the future. It may be difficult to design and implement effective internal control over financial reporting for combined operations as we integrate acquired businesses. In addition, differences in existing controls of acquired businesses may result in weaknesses that require remediation when internal controls over financial reporting are combined. For example, we were required to integrate the financial reporting systems of Crystal Decisions with our existing systems in 2004 and, as a result of our acquisition of SRC in August 2005, are currently integrating SRC’s systems with ours. Similarly, as a result of our acquisition of Infommersion, in October 2005, we are integrating Infommersion’s systems with ours. We also anticipate integrating First Logic’s systems with ours after that acquisition is completed in 2006. The integration of two compliant systems could result in a noncompliant system or an acquired company may not have compliant systems. In either case, the effectiveness of our internal control may be impaired. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operations, financial and management controls, as well as our internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to implement improvements to our internal control over financial reporting in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies and weaknesses in existing systems and controls, especially when such systems and controls are tested by increased rate of growth or the impact of acquisitions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal control systems we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our results of operations and financial condition. This could result in a negative perception of our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal control rules and regulations and subsequently a decline in our stock price. The software market in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions, which could negatively affect our product sales. The market for business intelligence software is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our products. To be successful, we must develop new products, platforms and enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with technological developments, changing industry standards and the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. Introducing new products into our market has inherent risks including those associated with: • adapting third party technology, including open source software; • successful education and training of sales, marketing and consulting personnel; • effective marketing and market acceptance; 17 Table of Contents • proper positioning and pricing; and • product quality, including possible defects. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments and changes, our competitive position could decline. In addition, even if we are able to develop new products, platforms or enhancements to our existing products, these products, platforms and product enhancements may not be accepted in the marketplace. Further, if we do not appropriately time the introduction or the announcement of new products or enhancements to our existing products, or if our competitors introduce or announce new products, platforms and product enhancements, our customers may defer or forego purchases of our existing products. In addition, we will have expended substantial resources without realizing the anticipated revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are currently a party to several lawsuits with MicroStrategy. The prosecution of these lawsuits could have a negative impact on our business. Should MicroStrategy prevail, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or be prevented from selling some of our products. On October 17, 2001, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against MicroStrategy for alleged patent infringement. The lawsuit alleged that MicroStrategy’s software infringed our U.S. Patent No. 5,555,403. Our complaint requested that MicroStrategy be enjoined from further infringing the patent and sought monetary damages. On August 29, 2003, the District Court granted MicroStrategy’s motion for summary judgment and ruled that our patent was not literally infringed, that we were estopped from asserting the doctrine of equivalents and dismissed the case. We appealed the District Court’s judgment to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On January 6, 2005, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit decided that the District Court concluded that MicroStrategy’s products did not violate our patent and determined that we were not precluded from arguing that MicroStrategy’s products were equivalent to a claim in our patent. As a result of the Federal Circuit’s ruling, the case was remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. On July 26, 2005, the District Court granted MicroStrategy’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement. We filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on August 19, 2005. This appeal remains pending and is being briefed by the parties. We cannot reasonably estimate at this time whether a monetary settlement will be reached or a favorable judgment will be obtained in this case. On October 30, 2001, MicroStrategy filed an action for alleged patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against us and our subsidiary, Business Objects Americas. The complaint alleged that our software infringed MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,279,033 and 6,260,050. In December 2003, the Court dismissed MicroStrategy’s claim of infringement on U.S. Patent No. 6,279,033 without prejudice. On June 7, 2004, the District Court advised the parties that it was of the opinion that summary judgment should be granted in our favor as to non infringement of MicroStrategy’s patent No. 6,260,050 and that the trial scheduled to begin on June 15, 2004 would not occur. On August 6, 2004, the District Court entered a formal opinion and order formalizing this decision. On September 3, 2004, MicroStrategy filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Court of Appeals heard oral arguments on August 3, 2005 and took the matter under submission. On November 17, 2005, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s ruling that we are not infringing MicroStrategy’s patent. In April 2002, MicroStrategy obtained leave to amend its patent claims against us to include claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, tortious interference with contractual relations and conspiracy in violation of the Virginia Code, seeking injunctive relief and damages. On December 30, 2002, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment and rejected MicroStrategy’s claims for damages as to the causes of action for misappropriation of trade secrets, Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and conspiracy in violation of the Virginia Code. On October 28, 2003, the Court granted judgment as a matter of law in favor of us and dismissed the jury trial on MicroStrategy’s allegations that we had tortiously interfered with certain employment agreements between MicroStrategy and its former employees. The Court took MicroStrategy’s claim for misappropriation of trade secrets under submission. On August 6, 2004, the Court issued an order rejecting all of MicroStrategy’s claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, except for a finding that a former employee of ours had misappropriated two documents. The Court issued a limited injunction requiring us not to possess, use or 18 Table of Contents disclose the two documents as to which it found misappropriation. The Court also denied MicroStrategy’s request for attorneys’ fees. On September 3, 2004, MicroStrategy filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit appealing each of the rulings. The Court of Appeals heard oral arguments on August 3, 2005 and took the matter under submission. On November 17, 2005, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s decision rejecting MicroStrategy’s claims except for a claim alleging interference with a non-solicitation clause in MicroStrategy’s employment agreement which has been remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. On December 1, 2005, MicroStrategy filed a petition with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit for panel rehearing and rehearing en banc. We filed our opposition to MicroStrategy’s petition on January 12, 2006. On January 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied MicroStrategy’s petition for rehearing and, as a result, the only claim remaining pertaining to interference with a non-solicitiation clause in MicroStrategy’s employment will be remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. On December 10, 2003, MicroStrategy filed an action for patent infringement against Crystal Decisions in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. We became a party to this action when it acquired Crystal Decisions. The complaint alleged that the Crystal Decisions’ software products: Crystal Enterprise, Crystal Reports, Crystal Analysis and Crystal Applications, infringe MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,279,033, 6,567,796 and 6,658,432. MicroStrategy has since alleged that Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports XI and OLAP Intelligence XI, successors of the products initially accused, also infringe the patents named in the suit. The complaint seeks relief in the form of an injunction, unspecified damages, an award of treble damages and attorneys’ fees. Summary judgment motions were filed by both parties. A claim construction and summary judgment hearing was held on November 21, 2005 and the District Court took the matter under submission. On January 23, 2006, the District Court issued a Memorandum Opinion granting our motion for summary judgment as to non-infringement of MicroStragegy’s U.S. patent No. 6,279,033 and for summary judgment as to the invalidity of MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,567,796 and 6,658,432. As a result, MicroStrategy’s claim that we infringed these three patents have all been dismissed and will not proceed to trial. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to MicroStrategy’s various allegations and claims in each of the suits and we intend to continue to vigorously to defend the actions. However, because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation in general, we cannot assure you that we will ultimately prevail. Should MicroStrategy ultimately succeed in the prosecution of its claims, we could be permanently enjoined from selling some of our products and deriving related maintenance revenues. In addition, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages to MicroStrategy. Litigation such as the suits MicroStrategy has brought against us can take years to resolve and can be expensive to defend. An adverse judgment, if entered in favor of any MicroStrategy claim, could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial position and cause our stock price to decline substantially. In addition, the MicroStrategy litigation, even if ultimately determined to be without merit, will be time consuming to defend, divert our management’s attention and resources and could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. These royalty or license agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and the prosecution of the MicroStrategy allegations and claims could significantly harm our business, financial position and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline substantially. We are a party to litigation with Vedatech Corporation and, in the event of an adverse judgment against us, we may have to pay damages, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In November 1997, Vedatech commenced an action in the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom against Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Business Objects Americas. The liability phase of the trial was completed in March 2002, and Crystal Decisions prevailed on all claims except for the quantum meruit claim. The High Court ordered the parties to mediate the amount of that claim and, in August 2002, the parties came to a mediated settlement. The mediated settlement was not material to Crystal Decisions’ operations and contained no continuing obligations. In September 2002, however, Crystal Decisions received notice that Vedatech was seeking to set aside the settlement. The mediated settlement and related costs were accrued in Crystal Decisions’ consolidated financial statements. In April 2003, Crystal Decisions filed an action in the High Court of Justice seeking a declaration that the mediated settlement agreement is valid and 19 Table of Contents binding. In connection with this request for declaratory relief Crystal Decisions paid the agreed settlement amount into the High Court. In October 2003, Vedatech and Mani Subramanian filed an action against Crystal Decisions, Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited and Susan J. Wolfe, then Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Crystal Decisions, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division, which alleged that the August 2002 mediated settlement was induced by fraud and that the defendants engaged in negligent misrepresentation and unfair competition. We became a party to this action when we acquired Crystal Decisions. In July 2004, the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division granted the defendants’ motion to stay any proceedings before such court pending resolution of the matters currently submitted to the English High Court. In October 2003, Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited, Crystal Decisions (Japan) K.K. and Crystal Decisions filed an application with the High Court claiming the proceedings in United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division were commenced in breach of an exclusive jurisdiction clause in the settlement agreement and requesting injunctive relief to restrain Vedatech from pursuing the United States District Court proceedings. On August 3, 2004, the High Court granted the anti-suit injunction but provided that the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division could complete its determination of any matter that may be pending. Vedatech and Mr. Subramanian made an application to the High Court for permission to appeal the orders of August 3, 2004, along with orders which were issued on May 19, 2004. On July 7, 2005, the Court of Appeal refused this application for permission to appeal. At a case management conference on January 11, 2006, the judge dismissed Vedatech’s application for summary judgment and gave directions for the matter to proceed to trial. Although we believe that Vedatech’s basis for seeking to set aside the mediated settlement and its claims in the October 2003 complaint is without merit, the outcome cannot be determined at this time. If the mediated settlement were to be set aside, an ultimate damage award could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. We are a party to litigation with Informatica and, in the event of an adverse judgment against us, we may have to pay damages or be prevented from selling some of our products, either of which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. On July 15, 2002, Informatica Corporation (“Informatica”) filed an action for alleged patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Acta. We became a party to this action when we acquired Acta in August 2002. The complaint alleged that the Acta software products infringe Informatica’s United States Patent Nos. 6,401,670, 6,339,775 and 6,208,990. On July 17, 2002, Informatica filed an amended complaint that alleged that the Acta software products also infringe United States Patent No. 6,044,374. The complaint seeks relief in the form of an injunction, unspecified damages, an award of treble damages and attorneys’ fees. The parties presented their respective claim construction to the District Court on September 24, 2003 and on August 2, 2005, the Court issued its claim construction order. The parties are currently engaged in discovery and no trial date has been set. We are vigorously defending this action. Should an unfavorable outcome arise, there can be no assurance that such outcome would not have a material adverse affect on our liquidity, financial position or results of operations. Although we believe that Informatica’s basis for its suit is meritless, the outcome cannot be determined at this time. Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation in general and that fact that this litigation is ongoing, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. Should Informatica ultimately succeed in the prosecution of its claims, we could be permanently enjoined from selling some of our products and be required to pay damages. We are a party to litigation with Decision Warehouse. The prosecution of this lawsuit could have a substantial negative impact on our business. Should Decision Warehouse prevail, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages. On September 29, 2004, Decision Warehouse Consultoria E Importacao Ltda. filed an action in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara against Business Objects Americas and Business Objects Do Brasil, Ltda. for unspecified damages alleging breach of contract, intentional interference with prospective 20 Table of Contents economic advantage and contract relationships, misappropriation of trade secrets, promissory fraud and unlawful business practices. The parties are currently engaged in discovery. No trial date has been set. We intend vigorously to defend this action. Should an unfavorable outcome arise, there can be no assurance such outcome would not have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. On December 22, 2004, Business Objects Americas and Business Objects Do Brasil, Ltda. filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara against Decision Warehouse Consultoria E Importacao Ltda. The lawsuit alleges violations of Brazilian copyright law, breach of contract, unfair business practices, account stated, open book account and for an accounting. Our complaint requested damages according to proof, “moral” damages under Brazilian law and award of sums found due after accounting. No trial date has been set. We have committed to undertake certain internal practices in connection with handling of employee information. We announced on October 21, 2005, that, in a follow-on to a civil action in which MicroStrategy unsuccessfully sought damages for its claim that we misappropriated trade secrets, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia decided not to pursue charges against us or our current or former officers or directors. We are taking steps to enhance our internal practices and training programs related to the handling of potential trade secrets and other competitive information. We will use an independent expert to monitor these efforts. If during the next two years, the Office of the U.S. Attorney concludes that we have not adequately fulfilled our commitments we could be subject to adverse regulatory action. The protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to our business and, if third parties use our intellectual property without our consent, our business could be damaged. Our success is heavily dependent on protecting intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology, which is primarily our software. It is difficult for us to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for a number of reasons, including: • policing unauthorized copying or use of our products is difficult and expensive; • software piracy is a persistent problem in the software industry; • our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; and • our shrink-wrap licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property rights to as great an extent as those of the United States and France. We believe that effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries, creating an increased risk of potential loss of proprietary technology due to piracy and misappropriation. For example, we are currently doing business in the People’s Republic of China where the status of intellectual property law is unclear and we may expand our presence there in the future. Although our name, when used in combination with our previous logo, is registered as a trademark in France, the United States and a number of other countries, we may have difficulty asserting our trademark rights in the name “Business Objects” because some jurisdictions consider the name “Business Objects” to be generic or descriptive in nature. As a result, we may be unable to effectively police the unauthorized use of our name or otherwise prevent our name from becoming a part of the public domain. We are registering a new trademark associated with our name “Business Objects” in numerous jurisdictions. We may have difficulty registering our new trademark in some of these jurisdictions because it may be considered generic or descriptive, or may conflict with pre-existing marks in those jurisdictions. We also have other trademarks or service marks in use around the world, and we may have difficulty registering or maintaining these marks in some countries, which may require us to change our marks or obtain new marks. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our contractors, vendors, and partners. However, there is a risk that our trade secrets may be 21 Table of Contents disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult or costly for us to enforce our rights and retrieve published trade secrets. We sometimes contract with third parties to provide development services to us, and we routinely ask them to sign agreements which require them to assign intellectual property to us which is developed on our behalf. However, there is a risk that they will fail to disclose to us such intellectual property, or that they may have inadequate rights to such intellectual property. This could happen, for example, if they failed to obtain the necessary invention assignment agreements with their own employees. We are involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may become involved in further litigation in the future. This type of litigation is costly and could negatively impact our operating results. Third parties have asserted that our technology infringes upon their proprietary rights, and others may do so in the future, which has resulted, and may in the future result, in costly litigation and could adversely affect our ability to distribute our products. From time to time, companies in the industry in which we compete receive claims that they are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We believe that software products that are offered in our target markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry segment grows and product functionalities begin to overlap. For example, we are defending one patent infringement suit brought by Informatica. The potential effects on our business operations resulting from third party infringement claims that have been filed against us and may be filed against us in the future include the following: • we would need to commit management resources in defense of the claim; • we may incur substantial litigation costs in defense of the claim; • we may have to expend significant development resources to redesign our products; • we may be required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements with such third party under unfavorable terms; and • we could be forced to cease selling or delay shipping our products should an adverse judgment be rendered against us. We may also be required to indemnify customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers and other resellers for third-party products incorporated into our products if such third party’s products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of these third parties that are commercial vendors will be obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, any such indemnification may not be adequate. In addition, from time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use selected open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties challenging ownership of what we believe to be our proprietary software. We may also be subject to claims that we have failed to comply with all the requirements of the open source licenses. Open source licenses are more likely than commercial licenses to contain vague, ambiguous, or legally untested provisions, which increase the risks of such litigation. In addition, third parties may assert that the open source software itself infringes upon the intellectual property of others. Because open source providers seldom provide warranties or indemnification to us, in such event we may not have an adequate remedy against the open source provider. Any of this litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to redesign our products or obtain licenses from third parties. 22 Table of Contents Our loss of rights to use software licensed from third parties could harm our business. We license software from third parties and sublicense this software to our customers. In addition, we license software from third parties and incorporate it into our products. In the future, we may be forced to obtain additional third party software licenses to enhance our product offerings and compete more effectively. By utilizing third party software in our business, we incur risks that are not associated with developing software internally. For example, third party licensors may discontinue or modify their operations, terminate their relationships with us, or generally become unable to fulfill their obligations to us. If any of these circumstances were to occur, we might be forced to seek alternative technology of inferior quality, which has lower performance standards or which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain our existing licenses or obtain alternate third party software licenses on commercially reasonably terms, our revenues could be reduced, our costs could increase and our business could suffer. We depend on strategic relationships and business alliances for continued growth of our business. Our development, marketing and distribution strategies depend on our success to create and maintain long-term strategic relationships with major vendors, many of whom are substantially larger than us. These business relationships often consist of joint marketing programs or partnerships with original equipment manufacturers or value added resellers. Although certain aspects of these relationships are contractual in nature, many important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation of each party. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings or contract defaults by any of these companies might interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2003, 2004 or 2005. Although no single reseller currently accounts for more than 10% of our total revenues, if one or more of our large resellers were to terminate their co-marketing agreements with us it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if major distributors were to materially reduce their purchases from us. Our distributors and other resellers generally carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because distributors and other resellers generally are not required to make a specified level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. We rely on our distributors and other resellers to sell our products, report the results of these sales to us and to provide services to certain of the end user customers of our products. If the distributors and other resellers do not sell our products, report sales accurately and in a timely manner and adequately service those end user customers, our revenues and the adoption rates of our products could be harmed. Our executive officers and key employees are crucial to our business, and we may not be able to recruit, integrate and retain the personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends upon a number of key management, sales, technical and other critical personnel, including our chief executive officer, John Schwarz, and Bernard Liautaud, who is our chairman of the board of directors and chief strategy officer, the loss of either of whom could adversely affect our business. The loss of the services of any key personnel or our inability to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel could result in significant disruption to our operations, including affecting the timeliness of new product introductions, hindrance of product development and sales efforts, degradation of customer service, as well as the successful completion of company initiatives and the results of our operations. Competition for such personnel in the computer software industry is intense, and we may be unable to attract, integrate and retain such personnel successfully. 23 Table of Contents We have multinational operations that are subject to risks inherent in international operations. We have significant operations outside of France and the United States, including development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. Our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks including: • technical difficulties and costs associated with product localization; • challenges associated with coordinating product development efforts among geographically dispersed development centers; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • lack of experience in certain geographic markets; • longer payment cycles for sales in certain foreign countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and certain other countries; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • foreign laws and other government controls, such as trade and employment restrictions; • management, staffing, legal and other costs of operating an enterprise spread over various countries; • political instability in the countries where we are doing business; and • fears concerning travel or health risks that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services in any country in which the business sales culture encourages face-to-face interactions. • Less well developed business practices and regulations, leading to potential need to defer the recognition of revenue earned in these areas These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro, the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, as well as other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We transact business in an international environment. As a result, we may experience substantial foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. We incur Canadian dollar expenses that are substantially larger than our Canadian dollar revenues, and we generate a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro and the British pound. We may experience foreign exchange gains and losses on a combination of events, including revaluation of foreign denominated amounts to the local currencies, gains or losses on forward or option contracts settled during and outstanding at period end and other transactions involving the purchase of currencies. As we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. While we have implemented certain strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we cannot ensure that we will not recognize gains or losses from international transactions, as this is part of transacting business in an international environment. Not every exposure is or can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks properly could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict future currency exchange rate changes. 24 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate may be affected by the proportion of our revenues and income before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax and other accounting body rulings. Since we must estimate our annual effective tax rate each quarter based on a combination of actual results and forecasted results of subsequent quarters, any significant change in our actual quarterly or forecasted annual results may adversely impact the effective tax rate for the period. Our estimated annual effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including: • changes in forecasted annual operating income; • changes in relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; • changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; • changes to actual or forecasted permanent differences between book and tax reporting, including the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and non-recurring charges which may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; • impacts from any future tax settlements with state, federal or foreign tax authorities; • impacts from changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; or • impacts from new FASB or IFRS requirements. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period. We are subject to frequent tax audits, where the ultimate resolution may result in additional taxes. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in additional taxes. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe certain positions may be challenged and that we may not succeed in realizing the anticipated tax benefit. Income taxes are recorded based on our determination of the probable outcome and specific reserves are recorded as necessary. We also evaluate these reserves each quarter and adjust the reserves and the related interest in light of changing facts and circumstances regarding the probability of realizing tax benefits. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and that we have adequately provided for any known tax contingencies, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results. In addition, as a result of tax audits, we may become aware of required adjustments to previous tax provisions set up in connection with the acquisition of businesses. These balances are generally recorded through goodwill as part of the purchase price allocation and are adjusted in future periods to goodwill instead of charges against the current statements of income. This treatment does not preclude the payment of additional taxes due, if assessed. For example, during April 2005, we received a notice of proposed adjustment from the Internal Revenue Service for the 2001 and 2002 fiscal year tax returns of Crystal Decisions and have submitted a Protest Letter. Income taxes related to the issues under audit were fully reserved as part of the original purchase price allocation, and are included in the income taxes payable balance on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004. We intend to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail, we will reverse the tax reserves and record a credit to goodwill. If we are not successful in defending our position, we expect this to have a negative impact on our cash and cash 25 Table of Contents equivalents balance as the result of the payment of income taxes, but as this relates to a matter addressed in purchase price accounting, will have no impact on our net income. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares or ADSs Additional sales of our shares by New SACs shareholders, our employees or issuances by us in connection with future acquisitions could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In November 2005, we registered for resale 6,301,767 of our ADS held by New SAC, which until January 3, 2006 was our largest shareholder. On January 3, 2006, New SAC distributed all these shares to its shareholders. These shareholders can resell our shares in the public market at any time. If the New SAC shareholders or our employees resell a substantial number of these shares in a short period of time, this could cause the market price of our shares to decline. In addition, although as of the date of this filing we have no plans to issue additional shares, if we were to do so in a public offering, acquisition or otherwise, the sales prices of our shares in the public markets may decline. Provisions of our articles of association and French law could have anti-takeover effects and could deprive shareholders who do not comply with such provisions of some or all of their voting rights. Provisions of our articles of association and French law may impede the accumulation of our shares by third parties seeking to gain a measure of control over our company. For example, French law provides that any individual or entity (including a holder of ADSs) acting alone or in concert that becomes the owner of more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 331/3%, 50%, 662/3%, 90% or 95% of our share capital outstanding or voting rights or that increases or decreases its shareholding or voting rights above or below by any of the foregoing percentages, is required to notify us within five trading days, of the number of shares and ADSs it holds individually or in concert with others and the voting rights attached to the shares and the number of securities giving access to shares and voting rights. The individual or entity must also notify the AMF within five trading days of crossing any of the foregoing percentages. The AMF then makes the information available to the public. In addition, any individual or legal entity acquiring more than 10% or 20% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must file a notice with us and the AMF within 10 trading days. The AMF makes such notice available to the public. This report must state whether the acquirer acts alone or in concert with others and must indicate the acquirer’s intention for the following 12-month period, including whether or not it intends to continue its purchases, to acquire control of us or to seek nomination (for itself or for others) to our board of directors. The acquirer must also publish a press release stating its intentions in a financial newspaper of national circulation in France. The AMF makes the notice public. The acquirer may amend its stated intentions by filing a new report, provided that it does so on the basis of significant changes in its own situation or stockholdings. Any shareholder who fails to comply with these requirements will have the voting rights for all shares in excess of the relevant thresholds suspended until the second anniversary of the completion of the required notifications and may have all or part of such voting rights suspended for up to five years by the relevant commercial court at the request of our chairman, any of our shareholders or the AMF and may be subject to a €18,000 fine. Our articles of association provide that any individual or entity (including a holder of ADSs) acting alone or in concert who acquires a number of shares equal to or greater than 2% or a multiple thereof, of our share capital or voting rights, shall within five trading days of crossing such holding threshold inform us of the total number of shares or voting rights that such person holds by a registered letter with a proof of delivery slip addressed to our headquarters or by an equivalent means in accordance with applicable foreign law. When the threshold is crossed as a result of a purchase or sale on the stock market, the period of five trading days allowed for disclosure begins to run on the trading date of the securities and not the delivery date. This notification obligation also applies, as set forth above, whenever a new threshold of 2% is reached or has been crossed (whether an increase or decrease), for whatever reason, up to and including a threshold of 50%. In determining the threshold referred to above, both shares and/or voting rights held indirectly and shares and/or voting rights associated with shares and/or voting rights owned as defined by the French Commercial Code will be taken into account. Furthermore, our articles of association provide that should this notification obligation not be complied with and should one or more shareholders who holds at least 2% of the share capital or voting rights so request, shares in 26 Table of Contents excess of the fraction which should have been declared are deprived of voting rights at any subsequent shareholders’ meeting convened until two years following the date of making the required notification. Any request of the shareholders shall be recorded in the minutes and will involve the legal penalty referred to above. Under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs, if a holder of ADSs fails to instruct the depositary in a timely and valid manner how to vote such holder’s ADSs with respect to a particular matter, the depositary will deem that such holder has given a proxy to the chairman of the meeting to vote in favor of each proposal recommended by our board of directors and against each proposal opposed by our board of directors and will vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs accordingly. This provision of the depositary agreement could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of our company. Holders of our shares have limited rights to call shareholders’ meetings or submit shareholder proposals, which could adversely affect their ability to participate in governance of our company. In general, our board of directors may call a meeting of our shareholders. A shareholders’ meeting may also be called by a liquidator or a court appointed agent, in limited circumstances, such as at the request of the holders of 5% or more of our outstanding shares held in the form of ordinary shares. In addition, only shareholders holding a defined number of shares held in the form of ordinary shares or groups of shareholders holding a defined number of voting rights underlying their ordinary shares may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. The minimum number of shares required depends on the amount of the share capital of our company and is equal to 2,193,544 ordinary shares based on our share capital as of February 28, 2006. Similarly, a duly qualified association, registered with the AMF and us, of shareholders who have held their ordinary shares in registered form for at least two years and together hold at least a defined percentage of our voting rights, equivalent to 1,853,443 ordinary shares based on our voting rights as of February 28, 2006, may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. As a result, the ability of our shareholders to participate in and influence the governance of our company will be limited. Interests of our shareholders will be diluted if they are not able to exercise preferential subscription rights for our shares. Under French law, shareholders have preferential subscription rights (droits préférentiels de souscription) to subscribe for cash for issuances of new shares or other securities with preferential subscription rights, directly or indirectly, to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. Shareholders may waive their rights specifically in respect of any offering, either individually or collectively, at an extraordinary general meeting. Preferential subscription rights, if not previously waived, are transferable during the subscription period relating to a particular offering of shares and may be quoted on the exchange for such securities on Eurolist by Euronext. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise preferential subscription rights for these shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. If these preferential subscription rights cannot be exercised by holders of ADSs, we will make arrangements to have the preferential subscription rights sold and the net proceeds of the sale paid to such holders. If such rights cannot be sold for any reason, we may allow such rights to lapse. In either case, the interest of holders of ADSs in our company will be diluted, and, if the rights lapse, such holders will not realize any value from the granting of preferential subscription rights. It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs rather than our ordinary shares to exercise some of their rights as shareholders. It may be more difficult for holders of our ADSs to exercise their rights as shareholders than it would be if they directly held our ordinary shares. For example, if we offer new ordinary shares and a holder of our ADSs has the right to subscribe for a portion of them, the Bank of New York, as the depositary, is allowed, in its own discretion, to sell for such ADS holder’s benefit that right to subscribe for new ordinary shares of our company instead of making it available to such holder. Also, to exercise their voting rights, holders of our ADSs must instruct the depositary 27 Table of Contents how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for a holder of our ADSs than it would for holders of our ordinary shares. Fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro may cause the price of our ordinary shares to deviate from the price of our ADSs. Our ADSs trade in U.S. dollars and our ordinary shares trade in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro may result in temporary differences between the value of our ADSs and the value of our ordinary shares, which may result in heavy trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences. We have not distributed dividends to our shareholders and do not anticipate doing so in the near future. We currently intend to use all of our operating cash flow to finance our business for the foreseeable future. We have never distributed cash dividends to our shareholders, and we do not anticipate that we will distribute cash dividends in the near term. Although we may in the future distribute a portion of our earnings as dividends to shareholders, the determination of whether to declare dividends and, if so, the amount of such dividends will be based on facts and circumstances existing at the time of determination. We may not distribute dividends in the near future, or at all. The market price of our shares is susceptible to changes in our operating results and to stock market fluctuations. Our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors’ and therefore, the market price of our shares may fall. In addition, the stock markets in the United States and France have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent periods, which have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies and often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of these particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our shares. The market fluctuations have affected our stock price in the past and could continue to affect our stock price in the future. The market price of our shares may be affected by one or more of the following factors: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; • announcements of our quarterly operating results and expected results of the future periods; • our failure to achieve the operating results anticipated by analysts or investors; • sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of a large number of our shares by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders; • announcements of our competitors or customers’ quarterly operating results, and expected results of future periods; • addition of significant new customers or loss of current customers; • international political, socioeconomic and financial instability, including instability associated with military action in Afghanistan and Iraq or other conflicts; • releases or reports by or changes in security and industry analysts’ recommendations; and • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights or other events. The sale price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq National Market for the period of January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005 ranged from a low of $22.49 to a high of $41.50. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 