Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. The following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide whether to purchase any of our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results have been and will continue to be subject to fluctuation. Historically, our operating results have varied substantially from quarter to quarter, and we anticipate that this will continue. These fluctuations occur principally because our revenues vary from quarter to quarter, while a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term and are based on anticipated levels of revenues. As a result, small variations in the timing of the recognition of revenues could cause significant variations in our quarterly operating results. While the variability of our revenues is partially due to factors that would 10 Table of Contents influence the quarterly results of any company, our business is particularly susceptible to quarterly variations because: • we typically record a substantial amount of our revenues in the last weeks of a quarter, rather than evenly throughout the quarter; • our customers typically wait until their fourth quarter, the end of their annual budget cycle, before deciding whether to purchase new software; • economic activity in Europe and certain other countries generally slows during the summer months; • customers may delay purchase decisions in anticipation of (i) changes to our product line, (ii) new products or platforms, (iii) product enhancements or (iv) in response to announced pricing changes by us or our competitors; • the mix of products and services and the amount of consulting services that our customers order, and the associated revenue, varies from quarter to quarter, and we expect this revenue mix to continue for the foreseeable future; • we depend, in part, on large orders and any delay in closing a large order, such as the delays we experienced in the three months ended June 30, 2006, may result in the realization of potentially significant net license fees being postponed from one quarter to the next; and • we experience longer payment cycles for sales in certain foreign countries. General market conditions and other domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also affect our quarterly revenues and operating results. Based upon the above factors, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon by shareholders. Investors may be unable to compare our results after January 1, 2006 with our results in prior periods due to stock-based compensation expense which may cause our stock price to fall. Our ability to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis may be affected by recent changes in stock-based compensation accounting rules. On January 1, 2006 we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“FAS”) No. 123R “Share-Based Payment, an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95” (“FAS 123R”), which requires us to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation at fair value and to recognize these costs as expenses in our statements of income. As a result of the recognition of these expenses, our net income and earnings per share have been materially adversely affected, and we may not be profitable on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) basis. Investors may find it difficult to compare our financial performance after January 1, 2006 with our prior performance because our cost of revenues, various categories of operating expenses and taxes are all affected by the adoption of FAS 123R. Although we are providing some information to assist investors to understand the impact of FAS 123R, investors may rely solely on our U.S. GAAP results and believe our results are worse than comparable prior periods and our stock price may fall. Beginning in 2007 and beyond, our results will be comparable to the prior year’s comparable period. Our revenues may be unpredictable due to the release of our BusinessObjects XI, release 2, product, and the expected end of life of our separate, existing Business Objects and Crystal Decisions products. In the past, customers have deferred purchase decisions as the expected release date of our new products has approached. In addition, customers have generally delayed making purchases of the new product to permit them to undertake a more complete evaluation of the new product or until industry analysts have commented upon the products. We released the Microsoft Windows version of BusinessObjects XI in January 2005. In late 2005, we also released BusinessObjects XI, release 2, for all supported languages. BusinessObjects XI, release 2, could be particularly susceptible to deferred or delayed orders, since it represents the integration of our former stand-alone Business Objects and Crystal Decisions product lines. Some customers may delay purchasing BusinessObjects XI, release 2, until later releases. 11 Table of Contents Any customer hesitation could result in purchase delays from one quarter to the next, causing quarterly orders and associated shipments and revenues to vary more significantly during this transition than we have previously experienced. The impact on revenues of the introduction of BusinessObjects XI, release 2, may be exacerbated or reduced by normal seasonal spending patterns. In addition, our customers can elect to continue to use our stand-alone products until or, in some cases beyond, the applicable end of life. As a result, we may have to continue to support multiple products including, in some cases, the provision of custom support beyond end of life. Any continued support of these stand alone products would increase our operating expenses. In addition, we anticipate that the pattern of adoption of BusinessObjects XI, release 2, by existing customers, and the related impact on our revenues, may not be consistent with the patterns we have previously experienced. The old Business Objects and Crystal Decisions products will transition to end of life, with the specific end date varying depending on the customer and the product. Existing customers will be deciding whether and when to transition to the integrated BusinessObjects XI, release 2, product, which may be viewed by them as a more significant decision about how to manage their business intelligence platform than prior migrations. Some customers may be reluctant to transition from our existing stand-alone Business Objects and Crystal Decisions products to BusinessObjects X1, release 2, due to the anticipated length and complexity of the migration, and may elect either to defer this purchase decision or not to purchase BusinessObjects XI, release 2, at all. In addition, we believe customers may have deferred, and may continue to defer, purchases of new incremental licenses or functionalities of BusinessObjects XI, release 2. If the pace at which our customers are currently migrating decreases, this could have a negative impact on our revenues. Finally, we cannot anticipate whether the product transition will result in a prolonged adoption cycle for BusinessObjects XI, release 2, or what the impact will be on maintenance revenues for the existing Business Objects and Crystal Decisions’ products prior to their end of life. If we overestimate revenues and are unable to reduce our expenses sufficiently in any quarter, this could have a negative impact on our quarterly results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and have fluctuated and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into actual licensing revenues could prevent us from planning or budgeting accurately, and any resulting variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers’ purchases would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, which could then harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because our costs will be relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to reduce our expenses to avoid or minimize the negative impact on our quarterly results of operations if anticipated revenues are not realized. As a result, our quarterly results of operations could be worse than anticipated. We are subject to frequent tax audits, where the ultimate resolution may result in additional taxes. As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in additional taxes. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, certain positions may be challenged and we may not succeed in realizing the anticipated tax benefit. For example, we are currently under examination by the French tax authorities for 2001 through 2004 fiscal year tax returns. We received notices of proposed adjustment for the 2001 and 2002 returns of Business Objects S.A. We have submitted protest letters in response to the proposed adjustments. We are defending our position vigorously, but there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. On December 22, 2006 we received a tax reassessment notice from the French government for a proposed increase in tax of approximately €85 million, including interest and penalties, for the 2003 and 2004 tax years. The principal issue underlying the notice is the proper valuation methodology for certain intellectual property that we transferred from France to our wholly owned Irish subsidiary in 2003 and 2004. We believe we used the correct methodology in calculating the taxes we paid to the French government and will defend vigorously against the payment of additional taxes. There can be no assurance that we will prevail, however, and the final determination that additional tax is due could materially impact our financial statements and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Income taxes are recorded based on our determination of the probable outcome and specific reserves are recorded as necessary. We also evaluate these reserves each quarter and adjust the reserves and the related interest in light of changing facts and circumstances regarding the probability of realizing tax benefits. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, our tax positions comply with applicable tax law, and we have adequately provided for any known tax contingencies, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results. In addition, as a result of tax audits, we may become aware of required adjustments to previous tax provisions set up in connection with the acquisition of businesses. These balances are generally recorded through goodwill as part of the purchase price allocation and are adjusted in future periods to goodwill instead of charges against the current statements of income. This treatment does not preclude the payment of additional taxes due, if assessed. For example, during April 2005, we received a notice of proposed adjustment from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the 2001 and 2002 fiscal year tax returns of Crystal Decisions and have submitted a protest letter. This matter is currently at the IRS Appeals level. Income taxes related to the issues under audit were fully reserved as part of the original purchase price allocation, and were included in the income taxes payable balance on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. We intend to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail, we will reverse the tax reserves and record a credit to goodwill. If we are not successful in defending our position, we expect the adjustment would have a negative impact on our cash and cash equivalents balance as a result of the payment of income taxes, but, except for any interest that is assessed for the post acquisition period, the adjustment would have no impact on our net income. Since we are required to report our consolidated financial results under both the U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) rules, we may incur increased operating expenses, we may not fulfill the reporting requirements of one or both of these reporting standards, we may be subject to inconsistent determinations with respect to our accounting policies under these standards and investors may perceive our operating results to be drastically different under these regimes. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which is a body of guidance that is subject to interpretation or influence by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. We prepare our consolidated French financial statements in conformity with IFRS, and our statutory financial statements continue to be prepared under French GAAP. The International Accounting Standards Board, which is the body formed to create IFRS and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), have undertaken a convergence program to eliminate a variety of differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP. The most significant differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS currently applicable to us relate to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense, the accounting for deferred tax assets on certain intercompany transactions relating to the transfer of intercompany intellectual property rights between certain subsidiaries and the accounting for business combinations. In accordance with French regulations, we filed with the AMF in France our Document de Rèfèrence 2005 on April 24, 2006 under the registration number R.06-038, which included our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 prepared under IFRS. Our Document de Rèfèrence 2005 includes the consolidated information prepared under IFRS that we published on April 26, 2006 in the BALO in France. In addition, we published our condensed consolidated financial statements for the first half of 2006 under IFRS in the BALO in France on October 20, 2006. Since we prepare separate consolidated financial statements in conformity with each of the U.S. GAAP and the IFRS rules, we may incur increasingly higher operating expenses, we may not be able to meet the reporting requirements of one or both of these reporting regimes, and we may be subject to inconsistent determinations with respect to our accounting policies pursuant to each of these reporting regimes. In addition, due to the differences between the U.S. GAAP and IFRS rules, investors may perceive our operating results under U.S. GAAP to be drastically different from our operating results under IFRS, potentially resulting in investor confusion regarding our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Changes to current accounting policies could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for some of our significant accounting policies are highly complex and require subjective judgments and assumptions. Some of our more significant accounting policies that could be affected by changes in the accounting rules and the related implementation guidelines and interpretations include: • Recognition of revenues; • Business combinations; • Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets; • Contingencies and litigation; • Accounting for income taxes; and • Stock-based compensation Changes in these or other rules, or scrutiny of our current accounting practices, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported operating results or the way in which we conduct our business. As a result of our adoption of FAS 123R, which requires us to expense all share-based payments awards in our income statement, our net income and earnings per share have been and are expected to continue to be materially adversely affected. On January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of FAS 123R, which requires us to recognize a stock-based compensation expense based on fair value of all share-based payment awards, including employee stock options, employee stock purchase plans, warrants and restricted stock units (“RSUs”). In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard, IFRS 2, “Share-Based Payment,” we have been required for our French consolidated financial statements to report the expense associated with stock-based compensation in our statements of income since January 1, 2004. The recognition of stock-based compensation expenses in our U.S. GAAP income statement has materially adversely affected our net income and earnings per share relative to the periods prior to January 1, 2006, which could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, our effective tax rate has been adversely affected as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R since the underlying tax benefit is limited to option exercises by North American based employees associated with non-qualified option plans and disqualifying dispositions by North American based employees of shares acquired through incentive stock option and international employee stock purchase plans. While most forms of stock-based compensation are non-cash charges and the expensing of stock-based awards impacts all companies who have stock-based compensation plans, we cannot predict how investors will view this additional expense or our management of this expense via our compensation policy related to stock-based awards and, as such, our stock price may decline. Changes in our stock-based compensation policy have adversely affected our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as a means to hire, motivate and retain our employees, and to align employees’ interests with those of our shareholders. As a result of our adoption of FAS 123R, we incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation awards. This could make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval of future stock-based compensation awards. Due to the increased costs of, and potential difficulty of obtaining shareholder approval for, future stock-based compensation awards we reduced the total number of options available for grant to employees and the pool of employees that is eligible to receive share-based awards. We believe these changes have negatively affected and will continue to restrict our ability to hire and retain employees, particularly key employees. In the absence of shareholder approval of future stock-based compensation awards, we may be unable to administer any option grant programs, which could adversely impact our hiring and retention of employees. In accordance with resolutions 14 Table of Contents approved at the 2006 shareholders meeting, we cannot issue during any given calendar year stock based compensation awards representing more than 3% of our share capital as of December 31 of the prior year. Therefore, we may not be able to grant stock based compensation awards necessary to hire and retain employees at the time such awards are necessary. Finally, if the companies with which we compete for employees do not change their stock-based compensation policies, we may no longer be competitive and may have difficulty hiring and retaining employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Our market is highly competitive, which could harm our ability to sell products and services and reduce our market share. The market in which we compete is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by changing technology and evolving standards. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers. Increased competition may cause price reductions or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, some of our competitors, particularly companies that offer relational database management software systems, ERP software systems and CRM systems may have well established relationships with some of our existing and targeted customers. This competition could harm our ability to sell our products and services effectively, which may lead to lower prices for our products, reduced revenues and market share, and ultimately, reduced earnings. Additionally, we may face competition from many companies with whom we have strategic relationships, including, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and SAP AG, all of which offer business intelligence products that compete with our products. For example, Microsoft has extended its SQL server business intelligence platform to include reporting capabilities which compete with our enterprise reporting solutions. These companies could bundle their business intelligence software with their other products at little or no cost, giving them a potential competitive advantage over us. Because our products are specifically designed and targeted to the business intelligence software market, we may lose sales to competitors offering a broader range of products. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, acquisitions of, or other strategic transactions by our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenues. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, some of our competitors may be more successful than we are in attracting and retaining customers. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, companies larger than ours could enter the market through internal expansion or by strategically aligning themselves with one of our competitors and providing products that cost less than our products. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future distributors, resellers, original equipment manufacturers or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to sell through these channels and reducing promotion of our products. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse effect on our business if they are unsuccessful. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies, technologies and product lines to complement our internally developed products. We expect that we will have a similar business strategy going forward. In April 2006 and October 2006, we acquired Firstlogic and ALG. It is possible that the contemplated benefits of these or any future acquisitions may not materialize within the time periods or to the extent anticipated. Critical to the success of this strategy in the future and, ultimately, our business as a whole, is the orderly, effective integration of 15 Table of Contents acquired businesses, technologies, product lines and employees into our organization. Effective integration will depend, in part, on our ability to adopt an appropriate business model for integrated businesses, particularly with respect to our go-to-market strategy. If this integration is unsuccessful, our business will suffer. There is a risk that we will not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses. There is also the risk that our valuation assumptions and models for an acquired product or business may be overly optimistic or incorrect if customers do not demand the acquired company’s products to the extent we expect, the technology does not function as we expect or the technology we acquire is the subject of infringement or trade secret claims by third parties. We have strategic relationships with Microsoft, IBM, Oracle and Accenture over which we have limited control and which, if terminated, could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. Our development, marketing and distribution strategies depend on our success to create and maintain long-term strategic relationships with major vendors, many of whom are substantially larger than us. These business relationships often consist of joint marketing programs or partnerships with original equipment manufacturers or value added resellers. Although certain aspects of these relationships are contractual in nature, many important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation of each party. Divergence in strategy, change in focus, competitive product offerings or contract defaults by any of these companies might interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. We currently have strategic relationships with Microsoft, IBM and Oracle that enable us to jointly sell and, in some cases, bundle our products with those of Microsoft, IBM and Oracle, and we are also developing certain utilities and products to be a part of their products. We have limited control, if any, as to whether Microsoft, IBM and Oracle will devote adequate resources to promoting and selling our products. For example, to date none of these partnerships has contributed significantly to our annual license revenues through these reseller activities. In addition, Microsoft, IBM and Oracle have designed their own business intelligence software and Microsoft is actively marketing its reporting product for its SQL server business intelligence platform. If Microsoft, IBM and Oracle reduces its efforts on our behalf or discontinues or alters its relationship with us, as SAP AG did by terminating our OEM/reseller agreement, and instead increases its selling efforts of its own business intelligence software or develops a relationship with one of our competitors, our reputation as a technology partner with them could be damaged and our revenues and operating results could decline. In addition, we have strategic relationships with global systems integrators such as Accenture. We collaborate with these global systems integrators to promote and sell our products. If Accenture reduces its efforts on our behalf or discontinues or alters its relationship with us, our reputation as a technology partner with them could be damaged and our revenues and operating results could decline. We depend on strategic relationships and business alliances for continued growth of our business. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2004, 2005, or 2006. Although no single reseller currently accounts for more than 10% of our total revenues, if one or more of our large resellers were to terminate their co-marketing agreements with us it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if major distributors were to materially reduce their purchases from us. Our distributors and other resellers generally carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because distributors and other resellers generally are not required to make a specified level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. We rely on our distributors and other resellers to sell our products, report the results of these sales to us and to provide services to certain of the end user customers of our products. If the distributors and other resellers do not sell our products, report sales accurately and in a timely manner and adequately service those end user customers, our revenues and the adoption rates of our products could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents We sell products only in the business intelligence software market; if sales of our products in this market decline, our operating results will be harmed. We generate substantially all of our revenues from licensing, support and services in conjunction with the sale of our products in the business intelligence software market. Accordingly, our future revenues and profits will depend significantly on our ability to further penetrate the business intelligence software market. If we are not successful in selling our products in our targeted market due to competitive pressures, technological advances by others or other reasons, our operating results will suffer. If the market in which we sell business intelligence software does not grow as anticipated, our future profitability could be negatively affected. The business intelligence software market is still evolving, and our success depends upon the continued growth of this market. Our potential customers may: • not fully value the benefits of using business intelligence products; • not achieve favorable results using business intelligence products; • experience technical difficulty in implementing business intelligence products; or • decide to use other technologies, such as search engines, to obtain the required business intelligence for their users. The occurrence of one or more of these factors may cause the market for business intelligence software not to grow as quickly or become as large as we anticipate, which may adversely affect our revenues. Our SaaS offerings carry a number of risks, some of which may be harmful to our business. In 2006, we announced the introduction of crystalreports.com, a SaaS offering. This on demand sharing platform enables customers to securely share important business information. In 2006, we also announced the introduction of the nSite on demand application platform, which is integrated with Salesforce.com’s CRM solutions. These on demand strategies carry a number of risks, including: • We have limited experience in the services market; • We may not be able to deliver these products or any enhancements to these products in the manner we have conveyed to customers; • Customers may question the viability or security of our on-demand offerings; • We may not be able to provide sufficient, continuous customer support for crystalreports.com and the nSite application platform; • We may incur higher than anticipated costs as we expand further into the on demand market; • We could experience service interruptions with respect to our on demand offerings, which could potentially impact our revenues and damage our customers’ businesses and result in warranty claims or litigation; • We may not be able to comply in a timely or cost effective manner with privacy and other regulatory requirements that apply to these products; • We may not realize anticipated market demand and acceptance of these on demand offerings; and • Sales of our sharing platforms bundled with license sales may delay the timing of revenue recognition for license arrangements that would otherwise have been recorded at the time of delivery. If SaaS becomes an important channel for us, our ability to deliver crystalreports.com and the application platform to customers’ satisfaction and to provide sufficient support will be critical. If our on demand offerings fail to meet customer expectations or if we fail to provide adequate support, our business could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our software may have defects and errors that could lead to a loss of revenues or product liability claims. Our products and platforms use complex technologies and may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite extensive testing, we may not detect errors in our new products, platforms or product enhancements until after we have commenced commercial shipments. If defects and errors are discovered after commercial release of either new versions or enhancements of our products and platforms: • potential customers may delay purchases; • customers may react negatively, which could reduce future sales; • our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; • we may have to defend product liability claims; • we may be required to indemnify our customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers or other resellers; • we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and • we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects and errors, which may result in the delay of new product releases or upgrades. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues, incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. We may have long sales cycles and may have difficulty providing and managing large scale customer deployments, which could cause a decline or delay in recognition of our revenues and an increase in our expenses. We may have difficulty managing the timeliness of our large scale customer deployments and our internal allocation of personnel and resources. Any such difficulty could cause us to lose existing customers, face potential customer disputes or limit the number of new customers who purchase our products or services. This could cause a decline in or delay in recognition of revenues and could cause us to increase our research and development and technical support costs, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we generally have long sales cycles for our large scale deployments. During a long sales cycle, events may occur that could affect the size, timing or completion of the order, as occurred in the three months ended June 30, 2006. For example, the potential customer’s budget and purchasing priorities may change, the economy may experience a downturn or new competing technology may enter the marketplace, any of which could reduce our revenues. Business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. A number of factors, including natural disasters, computer viruses or failure to successfully upgrade and improve operational systems to meet evolving business conditions, could disrupt our business, which could seriously harm our revenues or financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, some of our offices are located in potential earthquake or flood zones, which makes these offices, product development facilities and associated computer systems more susceptible to disruption. We currently have proprietary applications running key pieces of our manufacturing systems. These technologies were developed internally and we have only a small number of people who know and understand them. Should we lose those individuals before these systems can be replaced with non-proprietary solutions, we may experience business disruptions due to an inability to manufacture and ship product. In addition, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or temporarily disrupt our operations. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our own network. The costs to eliminate 18 Table of Contents computer viruses and alleviate other security problems could be significant. The efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of our operations. We continually work to upgrade and enhance our computer systems and implemented a significant upgrade during the fourth quarter of 2006. Although we did not experience any material delays or difficulties with our fourth quarter 2006 upgrade, if any future systems upgrade does not function as anticipated, we may not be able to complete our quarter close procedures in a timely manner. In addition, unanticipated systems disruptions could affect our ability to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Delay of such projects or the launch of a faulty application could cause business disruptions or harm our customer service levels. Even short-term systems disruptions from any of the above mentioned or other causes could result in revenue disruptions, delayed product deliveries or customer service disruptions, which could result in decreases in revenues or increases in costs of operations. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and to devote resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. It is difficult for us to predict how long it will take to complete the assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for each year and to remediate any deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we may not be able to complete the assessment and remediation process on a timely basis. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our shares will be affected. We cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective or sufficient in the future. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to maintain effective operations, compliance and management controls, as well as our internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to implement necessary improvements to our internal control over financial reporting in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies and weaknesses in existing systems and controls, especially when such systems and controls are tested by increased rate of growth or the impact of acquisitions. In addition, upgrades or enhancements to our computer systems could cause internal control weaknesses. It may be difficult to design and implement effective internal control over financial reporting for combined operations as we integrate acquired businesses. In addition, differences in existing controls of acquired businesses may result in weaknesses that require remediation when internal controls over financial reporting are combined. For example, we were required to integrate the financial reporting systems of Firstlogic with our existing systems in 2006. The integration of two compliant systems could result in a noncompliant system or an acquired company may not have compliant systems. In either case, the effectiveness of our internal control may be impaired. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal control systems we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective at any time in the future, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls, is unable to deliver a report at all or can deliver only a qualified report, we could be subject to regulatory enforcement and may lose investor confidence in our ability to operate in compliance with existing internal control rules and regulations, either of which could result in a decline in our stock price. 19 Table of Contents The software market in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions, which could negatively affect our product sales. The market for business intelligence software is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our products. To be successful, we must develop new products, platforms and enhancements to our existing products that keep pace with technological developments, changing industry standards and the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. Introducing new products into our market has inherent risks including those associated with: • adapting third party technology, including open source software; • successful education and training of sales, marketing and consulting personnel; • effective marketing and market acceptance; • proper positioning and pricing; and • product quality, including possible defects. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments and changes, our competitive position could decline. In addition, even if we are able to develop new products, platforms or enhancements to our existing products, these products, platforms and product enhancements may not be accepted in the marketplace. If we do not time the introduction or the announcement of new products or enhancements to our existing products appropriately, or if our competitors introduce or announce new products, platforms and product enhancements, our customers may defer or forego purchases of our existing products. In addition, we will have expended substantial resources without realizing the anticipated revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to structure our business model properly for mid-market customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have begun to expand our formal sales efforts from traditional enterprise customers to medium sized businesses. As we expand further into the mid-market, it will be necessary for us to differentiate our mid-market sales and services model sufficiently from our enterprise customer model, and to structure this model to fit the needs of our mid-market customers and channel partners. Any failure by us to structure our go-to-market strategy properly for mid-market customers could result in channel conflicts, as well as delayed and missed orders. If we are unable to prevent or effectively manage conflicts between our mid-market channel partners and our direct sales, or prevent delayed or missed orders, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, our expansion from the traditional enterprise customer base to medium sized businesses exposes us to different competitors, and could potentially increase competition with respect to pricing, product quality and services. This additional competition could result in price reductions, cost increases or loss of market share. We are currently a party to two lawsuits with MicroStrategy. The prosecution of these lawsuits could have a negative impact on our business. Should MicroStrategy prevail, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or be prevented from selling some of our products. On October 30, 2001, MicroStrategy filed an action for alleged patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against us and our subsidiary, Business Objects Americas. The complaint alleged that our software infringed MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,279,033 and 6,260,050. In December 2003, the District Court dismissed MicroStrategy’s claim of infringement on U.S. Patent No. 6,279,033 without prejudice. On August 6, 2004, the District Court entered a formal opinion granting our motion for summary judgment as to non-infringement of MicroStrategy’s patent No. 6,260,050. On September 3, 2004, MicroStrategy filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On November 17, 2005, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s ruling that we are not infringing MicroStrategy’s patent. In April 2002, MicroStrategy obtained leave to amend its patent claims against us to include claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, tortious interference with 20 Table of Contents contractual relations and conspiracy in violation of the Virginia Code, seeking injunctive relief and damages. On December 30, 2002, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment and rejected MicroStrategy’s claims for damages as to the causes of action for misappropriation of trade secrets, Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and conspiracy in violation of the Virginia Code. On October 28, 2003, the Court granted judgment as a matter of law in favor of us and dismissed the jury trial on MicroStrategy’s allegations that we had tortiously interfered with certain employment agreements between MicroStrategy and its former employees. The Court took MicroStrategy’s claim for misappropriation of trade secrets under submission. On August 6, 2004, the Court issued an order rejecting all of MicroStrategy’s claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, except for a finding that a former employee of ours had misappropriated two documents. The Court issued a limited injunction requiring us not to possess, use or disclose the two documents as to which it found misappropriation. The Court also denied MicroStrategy’s request for attorneys’ fees. On September 3, 2004, MicroStrategy filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit appealing each of the rulings. On November 17, 2005, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s decision rejecting MicroStrategy’s claims except for a claim alleging interference with a non-solicitation clause in MicroStrategy’s employment agreement which has been remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. On December 1, 2005, MicroStrategy filed a petition with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit for panel rehearing and rehearing en banc. On January 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied MicroStrategy’s petition for rehearing and, as a result, the only remaining claim, which pertains to interference with a non-solicitation clause in MicroStrategy’s employment agreement, was remanded to the District Court for further proceedings. MicroStrategy has since agreed to dismiss its only remaining claim, and a stipulation dismissing that claim was filed by the parties on December 4, 2006. The only remaining issue is the limited injunction issued by the Court in August 2004. On December 10, 2003, MicroStrategy filed an action for patent infringement against Crystal Decisions in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. We became a party to this action when we acquired Crystal Decisions. The complaint alleged that the Crystal Decisions’ software products: Crystal Enterprise, Crystal Reports, Crystal Analysis and Crystal Applications, infringe MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,279,033, 6,567,796 and 6,658,432. MicroStrategy later alleged that Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports XI and OLAP Intelligence XI, successors of the products initially accused, also infringe the patents named in the suit. The complaint seeks relief in the form of an injunction, unspecified damages, an award of treble damages and attorneys’ fees. On January 23, 2006, the District Court issued a Memorandum Opinion granting our motion for summary judgment as to non-infringement of MicroStrategy’s U.S. patent No. 6,279,033 and for summary judgment as to the invalidity of MicroStrategy’s U.S. Patent Nos. 6,567,796 and 6,658,432. As a result, MicroStrategy’s claim that we infringed these three patents have all been dismissed and judgment was entered in our favor on February 23, 2006. MicroStrategy filed a notice of appeal on March 24, 2006. Briefing for the appeal was completed by the parties on January 5, 2007. Oral arguments are scheduled to be heard by the Court of Appeals on April 4, 2007. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to MicroStrategy’s various allegations and claims in each of the suits and we intend to continue to defend the actions vigorously. However, because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation in general, we cannot be assured that we will ultimately prevail. Should MicroStrategy ultimately succeed in the prosecution of its claims, we could be permanently enjoined from selling some of our products and deriving related maintenance revenues. In addition, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages to MicroStrategy. We cannot currently estimate either the amount or range of any losses. Litigation such as the suits MicroStrategy has brought against us can take years to resolve and can be expensive to defend. An adverse judgment, if entered in favor of any MicroStrategy claim, could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial position and cause our stock price to decline substantially. In addition, the MicroStrategy litigation, even if ultimately determined to be without merit, will be time consuming to defend, divert our management’s attention and resources, and could cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. These royalty or license agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and the prosecution of the MicroStrategy allegations and claims could significantly harm our business, financial position and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline substantially. 21 Table of Contents We are a party to litigation with Vedatech Corporation and its Representative Director, Mani Subramanian, and in the event of an adverse judgment against us, we may have to pay damages, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In November 1997, Vedatech Corporation (“Vedatech”) commenced an action in the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom against Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Business Objects Americas. The liability phase of the trial was completed in March 2002, and Crystal Decisions prevailed on all claims except for the quantum meruit claim. The High Court ordered the parties to mediate the amount of that claim and, in August 2002, the parties came to a mediated settlement. The mediated settlement was not material to Crystal Decisions’ operations and contained no continuing obligations. In September 2002, however, Crystal Decisions received notice that Vedatech was seeking to set aside the settlement. In April 2003, Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited, Crystal Decisions (Japan) K.K. and Crystal Decisions (the “Claimants”) filed an action in the High Court of Justice seeking a declaration that the mediated settlement agreement is valid and binding (the “2003 Proceedings”). We were substituted as Third Claimant in the 2003 Proceedings in place of Crystal Decisions, following our acquisition of Crystal Decisions and its subsidiaries in December 2003. In connection with this request for declaratory relief the Claimants paid the agreed settlement amount into the High Court. In October 2003, Vedatech and Mani Subramanian filed an action against Crystal Decisions, Crystal Decisions (UK) Limited and Susan J. Wolfe, then Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Crystal Decisions, in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division, which alleged that the August 2002 mediated settlement was induced by fraud and that the defendants engaged in negligent misrepresentation and unfair competition. We became a party to this action when we acquired Crystal Decisions, and its subsidiaries. In July 2004, the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division granted the defendants’ motion to stay any proceedings before such court pending resolution of the matters currently submitted to the High Court. In October 2003, the Claimants filed an application with the High Court claiming the proceedings in United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division were commenced in breach of an exclusive jurisdiction clause in the settlement agreement and requesting injunctive relief to restrain Vedatech and Mr. Subramanian from pursuing the United States District Court proceedings. On August 3, 2004, the High Court granted the anti-suit injunction but provided that the United States District Court, Northern District of California, San Jose Division could complete its determination of any matter that may be pending. Vedatech and Mr. Subramanian made an application to the High Court for permission to appeal the orders of August 3, 2004, along with orders which were issued on May 19, 2004. On June 7, 2005, the Court of Appeal refused this application for permission to appeal. At a Case Management Conference on December 4 to 6, 2006, the High Court gave directions with a view to moving the 2003 Proceedings forward to trial in July 2007. The Court also ordered that unless by 4pm on December 18, 2006 the Defendants do pay to the Claimants costs in the sum of £15,600 (approx. US$30,400) due under a costs order made on November 30, 2005, then the Defendants be barred from defending the 2003 Proceedings. The Defendants failed to meet that deadline, and so are now barred from defending the 2003 Proceedings, and the Claimants are entitled to judgment on their Claim. A hearing has been set for March 20, 2007 to determine the form of judgment. The Defendants have made an application to the Court of Appeal for permission to appeal the December 2006 order. If this application is not successful, and the Claimants obtain judgment at the hearing on March 20, 2007, the 2003 Proceedings will be at an end, subject only to any further appeals. In the Claimants’ application for judgment, they have requested that the amounts due to them from the Defendants in damages, and in respect of the costs orders in the Claimants’ favor in the 2003 Proceedings, be paid out to the Claimants from the monies in court before the balance (if any) is paid to the Defendants. Although we believe that Vedatech’s basis for seeking to set aside the mediated settlement and its claims in the October 2003 complaint are without merit, the outcome cannot be determined at this time. The mediated settlement and related costs were accrued in Crystal Decisions’ consolidated financial statements. Although we may incur 22 Table of Contents further legal fees with respect to Vedatech, we cannot currently estimate either the amount or range of any such additional losses. If the mediated settlement were to be set aside, an ultimate damages award could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. We are a party to litigation with Informatica and, in the event of an adverse judgment against us, we may have to pay damages or be prevented from selling some of our products, either of which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. On July 15, 2002, Informatica Corporation (“Informatica”) filed an action for alleged patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Acta. We became a party to this action when we acquired Acta in August 2002. The complaint alleged that the Acta software products infringe Informatica’s United States Patent Nos. 6,401,670, 6,339,775 and 6,208,990. On July 17, 2002, Informatica filed an amended complaint that alleged that the Acta software products also infringe United States Patent No. 6,044,374. The complaint seeks relief in the form of an injunction, unspecified damages, an award of treble damages and attorneys’ fees. The parties presented their respective claim construction to the District Court on September 24, 2003 and on August 2, 2005, the Court issued its claim construction order. Dispositive motions were heard on September 29, 2006 and taken under submission. On October 11, 2006, the District Court issued an opinion denying Informatica’s motion for partial summary judgment, granting our motion for summary judgment on the issue of contributory infringement as to all four patents at issue and on direct and induced infringement of the 6,044,374 patent and denying our motion for summary judgment on the issue of direct and induced infringement of patents 6,401,670, 6,339,775 and 6,208,990. On February 21, 2007, Informatica agreed to dismiss its claims with respect to the 6,208,990 patent. A trial date has been set for March 12, 2007. We are defending this action vigorously. Should an unfavorable outcome arise, there can be no assurance that such outcome would not have a material adverse affect on our liquidity, financial position or results of operations. We cannot currently estimate either the amount or range of any losses. Although we believe that Informatica’s basis for its suit is meritless, the outcome cannot be determined at this time. Because of the inherent uncertainty of litigation in general and that fact that this litigation is ongoing, we cannot be assured that we will prevail. Should Informatica ultimately succeed in the prosecution of its claims, we could be permanently enjoined from selling some of our products and be required to pay damages. We are a party to litigation with Decision Warehouse Consultoria E Importacao Ltda. (“Decision Warehouse”). The prosecution of this lawsuit could have a substantial negative impact on our business. Should Decision Warehouse prevail, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages. On September 29, 2004, Decision Warehouse filed an action in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara against Business Objects Americas and Business Objects Do Brasil, Ltda. for unspecified damages alleging breach of contract, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage and contract relationships, misappropriation of trade secrets, promissory fraud and unlawful business practices. On August 18, 2006, Decision Warehouse amended its complaint to add a claim for unspecified damages alleging defamation. On October 27, 2006, the court granted summary judgment in our favor on the claim for defamation on the grounds that it is barred by the applicable statute of limitations. The parties are currently engaged in discovery on the remaining claims. A trial date has been set for June 11, 2007. We intend to defend this action vigorously. Should an unfavorable outcome arise, there can be no assurance such outcome would not have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. On December 22, 2004, Business Objects Americas and Business Objects Do Brasil, Ltda. filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Santa Clara against Decision Warehouse. The lawsuit alleges violations of Brazilian copyright law, breach of contract, unfair business practices, account stated, open book account and for an accounting. Our complaint requested damages according to proof, “moral” damages under Brazilian law and award of sums found due after accounting. On July 19, 2006, we filed an amended claim for unspecified damages against Decision Warehouse and one of its principal shareholders, Cesar Miranda alleging conspiracy to defraud and defamation. A trial date has been set for June 11, 2007. 23 Table of Contents We have committed to undertake certain internal practices in connection with handling of employee information. We announced on October 21, 2005, that, in a follow-on to a civil action in which MicroStrategy unsuccessfully sought damages for its claim that we misappropriated trade secrets, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia decided not to pursue charges against us or our current or former officers or directors. We are taking steps to enhance our internal practices and training programs related to the handling of potential trade secrets and other competitive information. We are using an independent expert to monitor these efforts. If, between now and November 17, 2007, the Office of the U.S. Attorney concludes that we have not adequately fulfilled our commitments we could be subject to adverse regulatory action. The protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to our business and, if third parties use our intellectual property without our consent, our business could be damaged. Our success is heavily dependent on protecting intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology, which is primarily our software. It is difficult for us to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for a number of reasons, including: • policing unauthorized copying or use of our products is difficult and expensive; • software piracy is a persistent problem in the software industry; • our patents may not cover the full scope of our product offerings and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may be enforceable only in certain jurisdictions; and • our shrink-wrap licenses may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property rights to as great an extent as those of the United States and France. We believe that effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries, creating an increased risk of potential loss of proprietary technology due to piracy and misappropriation. For example, we are currently doing business in the People’s Republic of China where the status of intellectual property law is unclear, and we may expand our presence there in the future. Although our name, when used in combination with our previous logo, is registered as a trademark in France, the United States and a number of other countries, we may have difficulty asserting our trademark rights in the name “Business Objects” because some jurisdictions consider the name “Business Objects” to be generic or descriptive in nature. As a result, we may be unable to effectively police the unauthorized use of our name or otherwise prevent our name from becoming a part of the public domain. We are registering a new trademark associated with our name “Business Objects” in numerous jurisdictions. We may have difficulty registering our new trademark in some of these jurisdictions because it may be considered generic or descriptive, or may conflict with pre-existing marks in those jurisdictions. We also have other trademarks or service marks in use around the world, and we may have difficulty registering or maintaining these marks in some countries, which may require us to change our marks or obtain new marks. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of nondisclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, vendors, and partners. However, there is a risk that our trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult or costly for us to enforce our rights and retrieve published trade secrets. We sometimes contract with third parties to provide development services to us, and we routinely ask them to sign agreements that require them to assign intellectual property to us that is developed on our behalf. However, there is a risk that they will fail to disclose to us such intellectual property, or that they may have inadequate rights to such intellectual property. This could happen, for example, if they failed to obtain the necessary invention assignment agreements with their own employees. We are involved in litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may become involved in further litigation in the future. This type of litigation is costly and could negatively impact our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Third parties have asserted that our technology infringes upon their proprietary rights, and others may do so in the future, which has resulted, and may in the future result, in costly litigation and could adversely affect our ability to distribute our products. From time to time, companies in the industry in which we compete receive claims that they are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We believe that software products that are offered in our target markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the industry segment grows and product functionalities begin to overlap. For example, we are defending one patent infringement suit brought by Informatica. The potential effects on our business operations resulting from third party infringement claims that have been filed against us and may be filed against us in the future include the following: • we would need to commit management resources in defense of the claim; • we may incur substantial litigation costs in defense of the claim; • we may have to expend significant development resources to redesign our products; • we may be required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements with such third party under unfavorable terms; and • we could be forced to cease selling or delay shipping our products should an adverse judgment be rendered against us. We may also be required to indemnify customers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers and other resellers for third-party products incorporated into our products if such third party’s products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although many of these third parties that are commercial vendors will be obligated to indemnify us if their products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, any such indemnification may not be adequate. In addition, from time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use selected open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties challenging ownership of what we believe to be our proprietary software. We may also be subject to claims that we have failed to comply with all the requirements of the open source licenses. Open source licenses are more likely than commercial licenses to contain vague, ambiguous or legally untested provisions, which increase the risks of such litigation. In addition, third parties may assert that the open source software itself infringes upon the intellectual property of others. Because open source providers seldom provide warranties or indemnification to us, in such an event we may not have an adequate remedy against the open source provider. Any of this litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to redesign our products or obtain licenses from third parties. Our loss of rights to use software licensed from third parties could harm our business. We license software from third parties and sublicense this software to our customers. In addition, we license software from third parties and incorporate it into our products. In the future, we may be forced to obtain additional third party software licenses to enhance our product offerings and compete more effectively. By utilizing third party software in our business, we incur risks that are not associated with developing software internally. For example, third party licensors may discontinue or modify their operations, terminate their relationships with us or generally become unable to fulfill their obligations to us. If any of these circumstances were to occur, we might be forced to seek alternative technology of inferior quality that has lower performance standards or that might not be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain our existing licenses or obtain alternate third party software licenses on commercially reasonably terms, our revenues could be reduced, our costs could increase and our business could suffer. 25 Table of Contents Our executive officers and key employees are crucial to our business, and we may not be able to recruit, integrate and retain the personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends upon a number of key management, sales, technical and other critical personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, John Schwarz, and our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Strategy Officer, Bernard Liautaud, the loss of either of whom could adversely affect our business. The loss of the services of any key personnel, including those from acquired companies, or our inability to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales and marketing personnel could result in significant disruption to our operations, including the timeliness of new product introductions, success of product development and sales efforts, quality of customer service, and successful completion of our initiatives, including growth plans and the results of our operations. For example, Susan Wolfe, our General Counsel, retired effective March 1, 2007. Although Ms. Wolfe will continue to be employed by Business Objects for a transition period, we cannot be certain that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Ms. Wolfe or for any other key employee who leaves Business Objects without expending significant time and resources or that we will not experience additional departures. Any failure by us to find suitable replacements for our key senior management may be disruptive to our operations. Competition for such personnel in the computer software industry is intense, and we may be unable to attract, integrate and retain such personnel successfully. In addition, if any of our key employees leaves Business Objects for employment with a competitor, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have multinational operations that are subject to risks inherent in international operations. We have significant operations outside of France and the United States, including development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. Our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks including: • technical difficulties and costs associated with product localization; • challenges associated with coordinating product development efforts among geographically dispersed development centers; • potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • lack of experience in certain geographic markets; • the significant presence of some of our competitors in some international markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • import and export restrictions and tariffs may prevent us from shipping products to particular jurisdictions or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; • failure to comply with foreign and domestic laws and other government controls applicable to our multinational operations, such as trade and employment restrictions; • potential fines and penalties resulting from failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations; • management, staffing, legal and other costs of operating an enterprise spread over various countries; • the recent addition of a number of employees in offshore locations for which attrition rates traditionally are believed to be higher than is generally true for North America and Europe; • political instability in the countries where we are doing business; • fears concerning travel or health risks that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services in any country in which the business sales culture encourages face to face interactions; and • different business practices and regulations, which may lead to the need for increased employee education and supervision. 26 Table of Contents These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro, the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, as well as other currencies in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We transact business in an international environment. As we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. We incur Canadian dollar expenses that are substantially larger than our Canadian dollar revenues, and we generate a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro and the British pound. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict and/or provide guidance on our results. While we have implemented certain strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we cannot ensure that we will not recognize gains or losses from international transactions, as this is part of transacting business in an international environment. Not every exposure is or can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. We may experience foreign exchange gains and losses on a combination of events, including revaluation of foreign denominated amounts to the local currencies, gains or losses on forward or option contracts settled during and outstanding at period end and other transactions involving the purchase of currencies. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks properly could adversely affect our operating results. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate may be affected by the proportion of our revenues and income before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax and other accounting body rulings. Since we must estimate our annual effective tax rate each quarter based on a combination of actual results and forecasted results of subsequent quarters, any significant change in our actual quarterly or forecasted annual results may adversely impact the effective tax rate for the period. Our estimated annual effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including: • changes in forecasted annual operating income; • changes in relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; • changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; • changes to actual or forecasted permanent differences between book and tax reporting, including the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and non-recurring charges which may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; • impacts from any future tax settlements with state, federal or foreign tax authorities; • impacts from changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; • impacts from acquisitions and related integration activities; or • impacts from new FASB or IFRS requirements. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares or ADSs Provisions of our articles of association and French law could have anti-takeover effects and could deprive shareholders who do not comply with such provisions of some or all of their voting rights. Provisions of our articles of association and French law may impede the accumulation of our shares by third parties seeking to gain a measure of control over Business Objects. For example, French law provides that any individual or entity (including a holder of ADSs) acting alone or in concert that becomes the owner of more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 331/3%, 50%, 662/3%, 90% or 95% of our share capital outstanding or voting rights or that increases or decreases its shareholding or voting rights above or below by any of the foregoing percentages, is required to notify us within five trading days, of the number of shares and ADSs it holds individually or in concert with others, the voting rights attached to the shares and the number of securities giving access to shares and voting rights. The individual or entity must also notify the AMF within five trading days of crossing any of the foregoing percentages. The AMF then makes the information available to the public. In addition, any individual or legal entity acquiring more than 10% or 20% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must file a notice with us and the AMF within 10 trading days. This notice must state whether the acquirer acts alone or in concert with others and must indicate the acquirer’s intention for the following 12-month period, including whether or not it intends to continue its purchases, to acquire control of us or to seek nomination (for itself or for others) to our Board of Directors. The AMF makes this notice available to the public. The acquirer must also publish a press release stating its intentions in a financial newspaper of national circulation in France. The acquirer may amend its stated intentions by filing a new notice, provided that it does so on the basis of significant changes in its own situation or stockholdings. Any shareholder who fails to comply with these requirements will have the voting rights for all shares in excess of the relevant thresholds suspended until the second anniversary of the completion of the required notifications and may have all or part of such voting rights suspended for up to five years by the relevant commercial court at the request of our chairman, any of our shareholders or the AMF and may be subject to an €18,000 fine. Our articles of association provide that any individual or entity (including a holder of ADSs) acting alone or in concert who acquires a number of shares equal to or greater than 2% or a multiple thereof, of our share capital or voting rights shall within five trading days of crossing such holding threshold inform us of the total number of shares or voting rights that such person holds by a registered letter with a proof of delivery slip addressed to our headquarters or by an equivalent means in accordance with applicable foreign law. When the threshold is crossed as a result of a purchase or sale on the stock market, the period of five trading days allowed for disclosure begins to run on the trading date of the securities and not the delivery date. This notification obligation also applies, as set forth above, whenever a new threshold of 2% is reached or has been crossed (whether an increase or decrease), for whatever reason, up to and including a threshold of 50%. In determining the threshold referred to above, both shares and/or voting rights held indirectly and shares and/or voting rights associated with shares and/or voting rights owned as defined by the French Commercial Code will be taken into account. Furthermore, our articles of association provide that should this notification obligation not be complied with and should one or more shareholders who holds at least 2% of the share capital or voting rights so request, shares in excess of the fraction which should have been declared are deprived of voting rights at any subsequent shareholders meeting convened until two years following the date of making the required notification. Any request of the shareholders shall be recorded in the minutes and will involve the legal penalty referred to above. Under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs, if a holder of ADSs fails to instruct the depositary in a timely and valid manner how to vote such holder’s ADSs with respect to a particular matter, the depositary will deem that such holder has given a proxy to the chairman of the meeting to vote in favor of each proposal recommended by our Board of Directors and against each proposal opposed by our Board of Directors and will vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs accordingly. This provision of the depositary agreement could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of Business Objects. 28 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors recently obtained authority to implement certain anti-takeover measures which may delay or discourage an acquisition of Business Objects. At the June 7, 2006 annual shareholders meeting, our shareholders approved resolutions granting our Board of Directors the authority to implement certain anti-takeover measures in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid by an acquirer that is not required to obtain prior approval by its shareholders before adopting any reciprocal defensive measure against an unapproved public tender offer or exchange offer. These anti-takeover measures were adopted in accordance with recent changes to the French Commercial Code. In the event of a hostile takeover bid, our Board of Directors now has the authority to issue warrants free of charge to all of our shareholders, allowing our shareholders to subscribe for one or more of our shares. Our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the terms and conditions of the warrants, and may issue warrants with preferential conditions. Our Board of Directors also now has the authority to issue securities authorized under certain resolutions adopted at the June 7, 2006 shareholders meeting in the event of an unsolicited takeover bid. If implemented, these anti-takeover measures may discourage an acquisition of us that our Board of Directors deems undesirable. The issuance of warrants or other securities may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms or in a manner not approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, these anti-takeover measures may discourage an attempt to change the composition of our Board of Directors or our management. Our Board of Directors could implement these anti-takeover measures to resist an offer from a third party to acquire us, including an offer to acquire our shares at a premium to the trading price or an offer that is otherwise considered favorable by our shareholders. In addition, the existence of these anti-takeover measures could restrict the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for our shares, and could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or an acquisition that a shareholder considers favorable. We cannot be certain that these new anti-takeover measures will be efficient. We cannot be certain that our new anti-takeover measures will be efficient as we adopted them pursuant to recent amendments to the French Commercial Code, and these measures have not yet been subject to implementation. To date, we do not have any precedents under French law to assist in determining the expected efficiency of these anti-takeover measures. These measures may not be as efficient as we anticipate, or may not be efficient at all. Holders of our shares have limited rights to call shareholders meetings or submit shareholder proposals, which could adversely affect their ability to participate in governance of Business Objects. In general, our Board of Directors may call a meeting of our shareholders. A shareholders meeting may also be called by a liquidator or a court appointed agent, in limited circumstances, such as at the request of the holders of 5% or more of our outstanding shares held in the form of ordinary shares. In addition, only shareholders holding a defined number of shares held in the form of ordinary shares or groups of shareholders holding a defined number of voting rights underlying their ordinary shares may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. The minimum number of shares required depends on the amount of the share capital of Business Objects and was equal to 2,214,374 ordinary shares based on our share capital as of January 31, 2007. Similarly, a duly qualified association of shareholders, registered with the AMF and us, who have held their ordinary shares in registered form for at least two years and together hold at least a defined percentage of our voting rights, equivalent to 1,901,031 ordinary shares based on our voting rights as of January 31, 2007, may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. As a result, the ability of our shareholders to participate in and influence the governance of Business Objects will be limited. Interests of our shareholders will be diluted if they are not able to exercise preferential subscription rights for our shares. Under French law, shareholders have preferential subscription rights (droits préférentiels de souscription) to subscribe for cash for issuances of new shares or other securities with preferential subscription rights, directly or indirectly, to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. Shareholders may waive their rights specifically in respect of any offering, either individually or collectively, at an extraordinary general meeting. Preferential subscription rights, if not previously waived, are transferable during the subscription period relating to a particular 29 Table of Contents offering of shares and may be quoted on the exchange for such securities on Eurolist by Euronext. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise preferential subscription rights for these shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. If these preferential subscription rights cannot be exercised by holders of ADSs, we will make arrangements to have the preferential subscription rights sold and the net proceeds of the sale paid to such holders. If such rights cannot be sold for any reason, we may allow such rights to lapse. In either case, the interest of holders of ADSs in Business Objects will be diluted, and, if the rights lapse, such holders will not realize any value from the granting of preferential subscription rights. It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs rather than our ordinary shares to exercise some of their rights as shareholders. It may be more difficult for holders of our ADSs to exercise their rights as shareholders than it would be if they directly held our ordinary shares. For example, if we offer new ordinary shares and a holder of our ADSs has the right to subscribe for a portion of them, the Bank of New York, as the depositary, is allowed, in its own discretion, to sell for such ADS holder’s benefit that right to subscribe for new ordinary shares of Business Objects instead of making it available to such holder. Also, to exercise their voting rights, holders of our ADSs must instruct the depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for a holder of our ADSs than it would for holders of our ordinary shares. Fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro may cause the price of our ordinary shares to deviate from the price of our ADSs. Our ADSs trade in U.S. dollars and our ordinary shares trade in euros. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro may result in temporary differences between the value of our ADSs and the value of our ordinary shares, which may result in heavy trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences. We have not declared or paid cash dividends to our shareholders and do not anticipate doing so in the near future. We currently intend to use all of our operating cash flow to finance our business for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends to our shareholders, and we do not anticipate that we will distribute cash dividends in the near term. Although we may in the future distribute a portion of our earnings as cash dividends to shareholders, the determination of whether to declare cash dividends and, if so, the amount of such dividends will be based on facts and circumstances existing at the time of determination. We may not distribute cash dividends in the near future, or at all. The market price of our shares is susceptible to changes in our operating results and to stock market fluctuations. Our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors’ and therefore, the market price of our shares may fall. In addition, the stock markets in the United States and France have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent periods, which have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies and often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of these particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our shares. The market fluctuations have affected our stock price in the past and could continue to affect our stock price in the future. The market price of our shares may be affected by one or more of the following factors: • announcements of our quarterly operating results and expected results of the future periods; • our failure to achieve the operating results anticipated by analysts or investors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; 30 Table of Contents • releases or reports by or changes in security and industry analysts’ recommendations; • announcements of our competitors or customers’ quarterly operating results, and expected results of future periods; • addition of significant new customers or loss of current customers; • sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of a large number of our shares by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders; and • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights or other events. The closing sale price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for the period of January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 ranged from a low of $19.21 to a high of $43.32. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 