Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Affecting Our Business We have a large amount of debt and other liabilities, and our business and financial position may be adversely affected if we will not be able to timely fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities. We have a large amount of debt and other liabilities, primarily due in 2015 and 2016. As of March 31, 2014, Tower had (i) approximately $126 million of outstanding secured bank loans to be repaid in quarterly installments between June 2014 through June 2016, totaling $25 million in 2014, $70 million in 2015 and $31 million in 2016, (ii) approximately $20 million of unsecured outstanding debentures to be repaid between December 2014 and December 2016, and (iii) approximately $231 million of unsecured outstanding debentures, convertible into our ordinary shares, 50% of which are payable in December 2015 and the remainder in December 2016, unless earlier converted into our ordinary shares. As of March 31, 2014, Jazz had (i) approximately $19 million of outstanding borrowings under its up to $70 million Wells Fargo credit line due December 2018, (ii) approximately $49 million of outstanding debentures due June 2015; and (iii) approximately $58 million of outstanding debentures, convertible into our ordinary shares, payable in December 2018, unless converted earlier. As of March 31, 2014, TPSC has loans amounting to 8.8 billion Japanese Yen (approximately $85 million) provided by Panasonic, see item 5.D.Trend Information. Carrying such a large amount of debt and other liabilities may have significant negative consequences on our business, including: · requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to service our indebtedness rather than investing our cash flows to fund our growth plans, working capital and capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; · volatility in our non-cash financing expenses due to increases in the fair value of our debt obligations, which may increase our net loss or reduce our net profits; and/or · enforcement by the banks and other financing entities of their liens against Tower, Jazz or TJP’s respective assets, as applicable at the occurrence of an event of default. · limiting our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities. In order to finance our debt and other liabilities and obligations, in addition to cash on hand and expected cash flow from operating activities, we continue to explore measures to obtain funds from additional sources including debt and/ or equity restructuring and/ or re-financing, sale of new securities, opportunities for the sale and lease-back of a portion of Tower’s real estate assets, sale of other assets, intellectual property licensing, as well as additional financing alternatives. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding, if at all, from the financing sources detailed above or other sources in a timely manner (or on commercially reasonable terms) in order to allow us to cover our ongoing fixed costs, capital expenditure costs and other liabilities and obligations, fully or partially repay our short term and long term debt in a timely manner and fund our growth plans and working capital needs. - 3 - Our success as a leading specialty foundry depends on our ability to continue to expand our business, customer base and market presence, including through acquisitions which involves various risks. There is no assurance that we will be successful in executing our acquisitions and integrating them into our business, utilizing our expanded capacity and finding new business, including successfully operating TPSC and integrating our foundry business opportunities into TPSC fabs. Our Company’s growth as a leading specialty foundry depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to increase our presence in the specialty foundry field and firmly entrench ourselves as a leading specialty foundry. In order to do so and thereby improve our financial position and operating cash flow, we need to expand our business and attract new customers who will utilize our expanded capacity. Our success at such expansion is dependent, in part, on finding suitable targets for acquisitions, successfully financing and consummating such acquisitions, loading the Company's facilities and integrating them into our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our business, attracting new customers in our current fabs and increasing our market presence. Further, we cannot assure that we will find and successfully execute such acquisitions or that they will achieve the expected synergies. With respect to our acquisition of the 51% equity stake in TPSC in March 2014, we may fail to successfully transfer and ramp up new foundry business into TPSC fabs. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations, procedures and personnel in a timely and efficient manner, as well as on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from integrating that business into our existing business. The integration will also require the dedication of substantial management effort, time and resources which may divert our management’s focus and our resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during this process. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees and the disruption of ongoing business, supplier, customer, employee, union and/or governmental relationships that may adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Furthermore, terms of our existing indebtedness may prohibit or limit our ability to (i) engage in certain acquisitions or (ii) support prior acquisitions and their integration into our business. Our reliance on acquisitions as a means of growth involves risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: · We may fail to identify acquisitions that would enable us to execute our business strategy. · Other foundries may bid against us to acquire potential targets. This competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. · We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or we may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals from our lender banks, and as a result, or for other reasons, we may fail to consummate certain acquisitions. · Potential acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from our existing business operations, which may have a negative adverse effect on our business. · We may fail to integrate acquisitions successfully in accordance with our business strategy, achieve expected synergies or attract sufficient business to newly acquired facilities in a timely manner. - 4 - · We may not be able to retain experienced management and skilled employees from the businesses we acquire and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them. · We may purchase a company with excessive unknown contingent liabilities, including, among others, patent infringement or product liability. · We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions or the amount or terms of financing actually required before and after acquisition may vary from our expectations. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: · fluctuations in the level of revenues from our operating activities; · fluctuations in the collection of receivables; · timing and size of payables; · the timing and size of capital expenditures; · the repayment schedules of our debt service obligations under our short-term and long-term liabilities; and · our ability to fulfill our obligations and meet performance milestones under our facility agreement and foundry agreements. If Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement, or if Tower fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in its amended facility agreement and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower’s business and financial position may be adversely affected. Under Tower's amended facility agreement with Bank Hapoalim B.M. and Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., in the event that Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement and is unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule or revised terms, or fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in the amended facility agreement, and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower's banks may require Tower to immediately repay all loans made by them to Tower, plus penalties, and the banks would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under the amended facility agreement, including enforcement of their lien against Tower's assets. There is no assurance that Tower will be able to generate the cash necessary to fund the scheduled payments from increased levels of cash from operations or from additional equity or debt financing or other funding sources. If Tower is not able to generate increased levels of revenue and cash from operations or raise sufficient funds in a timely manner, Tower would likely be unable to comply with the repayment schedule and may fail to meet covenants and financial ratios under the amended facility agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on Tower. - 5 - Israeli banking regulations may impose restrictions on the total debt that Tower may borrow from Israeli banks. Pursuant to a directive published by the Israel Supervisor of Banks, effective March 31, 2004, Tower may be deemed part of a group of borrowers comprised of the Ofer Brothers Group, the Israel Corporation Ltd. ("Israel Corp.") and other companies which are also included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive, including companies under the control or deemed control of these entities. The directive imposes limitations on amounts that Israeli banks may lend to borrowers or groups of borrowers, hence restricting the ability of Tower to receive loans from certain Israeli banks, considering all Israeli bank’s outstanding loans to the group. Should Tower's existing lender banks exceed these limitations, their ability to lend additional money to Tower in the future, if Tower would be interested in receiving such loan, would be limited and they may ask Tower to repay some or all of its $126 million outstanding borrowings, which may have a material adverse effect on Tower’s business and financial condition. Our acquisition of a majority stake in TPSC involves risks that may adversely affect our future financial performance and position. Our recent acquisition of a majority stake in TPSC involves known and unknown risks that may adversely affect our future financial performance and position, including: · Failure to successfully integrate TPSC in accordance with our business strategy; · Historically, TPSC’s fabs solely manufactured Panasonic Corporation’s and its customers’ products. TPSC intends to bring various process technologies to its fabs to enable the manufacture of a wide range of products at these facilities for a broad range of customers. This requires significant capital expenditures and on-site qualification of technologies. There is no assurance that TPSC will be successful in expanding its customer base in a timely manner in order to cover its manufacturing, operating and technology ramp costs. In the event that TPSC is unable to generate sufficient additional revenues from third party customers, we may not meet our future revenue expectations. · The establishment of TPSC involves a major change of control event in the fabrication facilities that were transferred by Panasonic Corporation to TPSC including the transfer of employees to a new employer (TPSC) controlled by Tower. There is no assurance that a sufficient number of employees will accept the offer to transfer to TPSC in order for TPSC to possess the required knowledge and experience to carry out its business plan and comply with its manufacturing and service commitments. If TPSC fails to execute its business plan, our financial results may be adversely affected. The planned cessation of Fab 4 operations in the course of restructuring our activities and business in Japan involves risks that may impact negatively our business and financial results. In 2014, we decided to cease the operations of Fab 4 in the course of restructuring our activities and business in Japan. In connection with the restructuring, we expect a termination of certain agreements, sale of Fab 4 assets and a comprehensive reduction in the work force. In accordance with GAAP we will have to reflect in our 2014 financial statements TJP’s assets and liabilities at their recovery and fair values, considering, among others, expected cash receipt from the sale of its assets and forecasted liabilities values (including termination costs), and as a result we may incur a significant non-cash expense item in our statement of operations for the first quarter of 2014 to reflect the net effect of the above under GAAP, which amount may be revised upwards or downwards at the following periods once the process of selling assets and negotiating liabilities progresses. In addition, we are making a concerted effort to move certain current customers and products from Fab 4 to our other fabrication facilities. Such measures and process may trigger unexpected claims and demands from employees, labor union, suppliers, customers or other third parties, which could affect the ongoing operations and the manufacture of customer products until operations are ceased. If TJP does not receive sufficient funds from the sale of its assets or is unable to settle such claims amicably, it may fail to manufacture all of its orders until its cessation date and/or pay a portion or all of its employee and other obligations and liabilities, which may impact our financial projections, business, reputation and financial results negatively, including specifically our future business in Japan and our ability to attract customers. - 6 - Failure to comply with the terms of the Israeli Investment Center regulations and the criteria set forth in the certificates of approval may subject us to significant penalties by the Investment Center. In 2011, we received an official approval certificate (“ktav ishur”) from the Israeli investment center (“Investment Center”), a governmental agency, for our expansion program pursuant to which we have received approximately $36 million to date for investments made commencing 2006 and through 2012. Final investments report was filed and pending final approval of the Investment Center. Under our previous program approved in December 2000, we received $165 million of grants for capital expenditure investments made during the years 2001 through 2005. This plan was completed and approved by the Investment Center. Eligibility for the above grants is subject to various conditions stipulated by the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments - 1959 (“Investments Law”) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as the criteria set forth in the certificates of approval. In the event we breach the various conditions and terms related thereto, we may be exposed to significant penalties by the Investment Center, up to the amounts we received plus interest and certain inflation adjustments. In order to secure fulfillment of the conditions related to the receipt of investment grants, floating liens were registered in favor of the State of Israel on substantially all of Tower’s assets. These liens secure the Investment Center against a breach by us of the terms of the investments grant program. If we do not receive orders from our customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts, we may have excess capacity. We have committed a portion of our capacity for future orders from some customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts. If these customers do not place orders with us in accordance with their contractual loading and purchase commitments, and if we are unable to fill such unutilized capacity in a timely manner, our financial results may be adversely affected. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness. Although Tower and Jazz are limited by the covenants in their respective loan facilities, Tower and/or Jazz could find themselves in a position in which they may be required to take on additional indebtedness in order to fund their operations, which would increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness may increase the risks associated with servicing our indebtedness as described above. A global recession, unfavorable economic conditions and/or credit crisis may adversely affect our results and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities. A downturn or a weakness in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy and/or in the Company's customer base and/or customers' products base, may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain its customers' existing demand for products, attract new customers and new business to its current fabs, increase the utilization rates in its manufacturing facilities and maintain them at a high level that would suffice to cover its substantial fixed costs, maintain commercial relationships with its customers, suppliers, and creditors, including its lenders, continue its capacity growth, and improve the Company’s future financial results and position, including its ability to raise funds in the capital markets, and fulfill its debt obligations and other liabilities, including refinancing its debt and other liabilities and/or pay them in a timely manner, comprised mainly of bank’ loans and debentures. There is no assurance that such downturn will not occur. The effects of such a downturn may include global decreased demand, downward price pressure, excess inventory and unutilized capacity worldwide, which may negatively impact consumer and customer demand for the Company’s products and the end products of the Company’s customers. - 7 - Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the volatility of the markets served by our customers; · Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; · Shifts by integrated device manufacturers and customers between internal and outsourced production; · Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; · The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer or the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; · The occurrence of accounts receivable write-offs, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivable in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers; · The rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; · Our ability to satisfy our customers’ demand for quality and timely production; · The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; · Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; · Price erosion in the industry; · Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fire or explosions; · Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; · Our ability to maintain existing partners and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; · Interest, price index and currency rate fluctuations that were not hedged; · Technological changes and short product life cycles; - 8 - · Timing for the design and qualification of new products; · Increase in the fair value of our bank loans, certain of our warrants and debentures; and · Changes in accounting rules affecting our results. Furthermore, integrated device manufacturers continue to design and manufacture integrated circuits in their own fabrication facilities. There is a possibility that in certain periods or under certain circumstances such as low demand, they will choose to manufacture their products in their facilities instead of manufacturing products at external foundries. If our customers will choose to manufacture internally rather than manufacture at our facilities, our business may be negatively impacted. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our Company, including our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. The lack of a significant backlog resulting from our customers not placing purchase orders far in advance makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that, in the future, our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. If orders received from our customers differ adversely from the number of wafers forecasted to be ordered, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. We occasionally manufacture wafers based on forecasted demand, rather than actual orders from customers. If our forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, we may have obsolete inventory, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We generally do not manufacture wafers unless we receive a customer purchase order. On occasion, we may produce wafers in excess of customer orders based on forecasted customer demand, because we may forecast future excess demand or because of future capacity constraints. If we manufacture more wafers than are actually ordered by customers, we may be left with excess inventory that may ultimately become obsolete and must be scrapped if it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory could have a negative impact on our results of operations. - 9 - As is common in our industry, a large portion of our total costs is comprised of fixed costs associated mainly with our manufacturing facilities and we have a history of operating losses. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to operate our facilities at high enough utilization rates sufficient to reach revenue levels that would cover our fixed costs, reduce our losses and allow us to be profitable. As is common in our industry, a large portion of our total costs is comprised of fixed costs, associated mainly with our manufacturing facilities, while our variable costs are relatively small. Therefore, during periods when our fabrications manufacture at high utilization rates, we are able to cover our costs. However, at times when the utilization rate is low, the reduced revenues may not cover all of the costs since a large portion of them are fixed costs and remain constant, irrespective of the fact that less wafers were manufactured. In addition, depreciation costs in our industry are high, which has resulted in our operating at a GAAP loss for the last number of years. If customer demand for our products does not increase, we may not be able to operate our facilities consistently at high utilization rates, which may not enable us to fully cover all of our costs, achieve and maintain operating profits or achieve net profits. In addition, we may be unable to generate enough cash from operations that would cover our fixed costs, capital expenditures, liabilities and debt payments as well as reduce our losses. We cannot assure that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our sales cycles are typically long, and orders received may not meet our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our sales cycles, which we measure from first contact with a customer to first shipment of a product ordered by the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received significantly differ from our expectations, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to fill within a short period of time, resulting in lower utilization of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices in order to try to sell more wafers in order to utilize the excess capacity which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. In addition to the revenue loss, we may have difficulty adjusting our costs to align with the lower revenue since a large portion of our cost is fixed costs as common in our industry, which could harm our financial results. Demand for our foundry services is dependent on the demand in our customers’ end markets. A decrease in demand for, or selling prices of, products that contain semiconductors may decrease the demand for our services and products and reduce our margins. Our customers generally use the semiconductors produced in our fabs in a wide variety of applications. We derive a significant percentage of our operating revenues from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs and other electronic devices. Any significant decrease in the demand for these devices or products may decrease the demand for our services and products. In addition, if the average selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs or other electronic devices decline significantly, we may be pressured to further reduce our selling prices, which may reduce our revenues and may reduce our margins significantly. As demonstrated by downturns in demand for high technology products in the past, market conditions can change rapidly, without apparent warning or advance notice. In such instances, our customers may experience inventory buildup and/or difficulties in selling their products and, in turn, may reduce or cancel orders for wafers from us. The timing, severity and recovery of these downturns cannot be predicted accurately or at all. When they occur, our business and profitability may suffer. In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products utilizing the integrated circuits that we manufacture must develop and expand. For example, the success of our imaging process technologies will depend, in part, on the growth of markets for certain image sensor product applications. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenue. - 10 - The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and any resulting periodic overcapacity may lead to erosion of sale prices, may make our business and operating results particularly vulnerable to economic downturns, and may reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Traditionally, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of decreased demand in order to have the capacity needed to meet expected demand in future upturns. If actual demand does not increase or declines, or if companies in the industry expand too aggressively, the industry may experience a period in which industry-wide capacity exceeds demand. This could result in overcapacity and excess inventories, leading to rapid erosion of average sales prices. The prices that we can charge our customers for our services are significantly related to the overall worldwide supply of integrated circuits and semiconductor products. The overall supply of semiconductor products is based in part on the capacity of other companies, which is outside of our control. In periods of overcapacity, despite the fact that we utilize niche technologies and manufacture specialty products, we may have to lower the prices we charge our customers for our services which may reduce our margins and weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot give assurance that an increase in the demand for foundry services in the future will not lead to under-capacity, which could result in the loss of customers and materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings and margins. Analysts believe that such patterns may repeat in the future. The overcapacity, under-utilization and downward price pressure characteristic of a downturn in the semiconductor market and/or in the global economy, such as experienced several times in the past, may negatively impact consumer and customer demand for the Company’s products, the end products of the Company’s customers and the financial markets, which may affect our ability to raise funds and/or restructure and/or re-finance our debt and/or service our other liabilities. If Tower fails to comply with the terms of an agreement under which Tower has to provide a turn-key solution for the upgrade of a fabrication facility, Tower’s financial condition may be affected. In 2009, Tower entered into a definitive agreement with an Asian entity for the provision by Tower on a turn-key basis of various services and equipment required for the capacity ramp-up and upgrade of the entity’s currently installed and commissioned eight inch refurbished wafer fabrication facility. Under said agreement, Tower provides technical consultation, know-how, training and turn-key manufacturing solutions, including arranging for the required manufacturing and the transfer of certain equipment required for the fab ramp-up and upgrade. The total agreement value is approximately $130 million of which approximately $123 million was received as of December 31, 2013. Payments are based on performance of milestones and delivery of the deliverables such as, delivery of detailed working plans; design of clean room; delivery of process equipment; training and integration; and performance of qualification tests and analyses. If we fail to meet our remaining obligations under this agreement, we may face claims for liability or indemnification which may have a material effect on our financial condition and may not be able to collect the remaining outstanding balance under this Agreement. If we do not maintain our current customers and attract additional customers, our business may be adversely affected. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in the sales volume or sales prices to, our significant customers, or our failure to replace lost business with new customers, could seriously harm our financial results, revenue and business. We have relationships with several customers that represent a material portion of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we had three customers that contributed between 7% to 27% of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we had two customers that contributed between 6% to 43% of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had four customers that contributed between 5% to 32% of our revenues. The loss of any one of these customers, whether due to insolvency, their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under their respective relationships with us, or if we are unable to renew our engagements with them on commercially reasonable terms, may materially negatively impact our overall business and our consolidated financial position and financial results. - 11 - Micron Technology, Inc. which has been a significant customer of TJP, comprising 27% of our revenue in 2013, is committed from 2011 to purchase certain minimum material amount of products, with periodic reductions through expiration of the agreement in June 2014. Micron has utilized a major percentage of the Nishiwaki Fab under this contract, which has covered the fixed costs and certain other additional costs through the term of the agreement. However, Micron is not committed to utilize Fab 4 beyond the second quarter of 2014 and since its forecasts are decreasing thereafter, we believe that considering the cessation of the operations of Fab 4 in the course of the restructuring of our activities and business in Japan, Micron’s purchases will comprise less than 10% of our revenues in 2014, and no revenue will be attributed to Micron in 2015. Panasonic Corporation is going to be a significant customer of TPSC at least during its initial years of operation and is expected to comprise major portion of its revenue for at least the coming two years. For these two years, our ability to successfully operate TPSC is essentially dependent on Panasonic Corporation ordering a sufficient number of wafers and manufacturing services from TPSC. We already began discussions with some potential foundry customers to initiate manufacturing at TPSC, and TPSC shall start manufacturing as soon as final agreement is reached with such potential foundry customers. However, such process may take more than two years to reach the mass production stage, as customary in our industry. Failure to receive sufficient amount of revenue from Panasonic may significantly jeopardize TPSC and our plans and negatively harm our financial results. If we do not maintain and develop our technology processes and services, we may lose customers and may be unable to attract new ones. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: · rapid technological developments; · evolving industry standards; · changes in customer and product end user requirements; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. Our ability to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers is dependent in part on our ability to continuously develop and introduce to production advanced specialized manufacturing process technologies and purchase the appropriate equipment. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce these processes to production in a timely manner or at all, or if we are unable to purchase the appropriate equipment required for such processes, we may be unable to maintain our current customer base and may be unable to attract new customers. - 12 - The semiconductor foundry business is highly competitive; our competitors may have competitive advantages over us and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not successfully compete in the industry. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over 20 integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close geographic proximity to companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits. As our competitors continue to expand their manufacturing capacity, there could be an increase in specialty semiconductor capacity. As specialty capacity increases, there may be more competition and pricing pressure on our services, which may result in underutilization of our capacity, decrease of our profit margins, reduced earnings or increased losses. In addition, some semiconductor companies have advanced their CMOS designs to 65 nanometer or smaller geometries. These smaller geometries may provide customers with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by our specialty process technologies. The smaller geometries may also be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Our specialty processes will therefore compete with these processes and some of our potential and existing customers could elect to design these advanced CMOS processes into their next generation products. We are not currently capable, and do not currently plan to become capable, of providing CMOS processes at these smaller geometries. If our potential or existing customers choose to design their products using these advanced CMOS processes, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: · greater manufacturing capacity; · geographically diversified and more advanced manufacturing facilities; · more advanced technological capabilities; · a more diverse and established customer base; · greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; · a better cost structure; and/or · better operational performance in cycle time and yields. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. - 13 - If we experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems, our business could be seriously harmed. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture wafers and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We may experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Although we have been enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and efficiency, from time to time we have experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems, as is common in the semiconductor industry. In the past, we have encountered the following problems: · difficulties in upgrading or expanding existing facilities; · unexpected breakdowns in our manufacturing equipment and/or related facility systems; · difficulties in changing or upgrading our process technologies; · raw material shortages or impurities; · delays in delivery or shortages of spare parts; and · difficulties in maintenance of our equipment. Should these problems repeat, we may suffer delays in delivery and/or loss of reputation, business and revenues. Any of these problems could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. If we are unable to purchase equipment and raw materials, we may not be able to manufacture our products in a timely fashion, which may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers. To increase the production capability and maintain the quality of production in our facilities, we must procure additional equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In several instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry demand. Any such shortages could result in production delays that may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our exposure to inflation and currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations may increase our cost of operations. Of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, 27% was in Japanese Yen (JPY) and almost all of the rest of our revenues were in U.S. dollars (USD). Of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, 43% was in Japanese Yen (JPY) and almost all of the rest of our revenues were in U.S. dollars (USD). Our financing and investing activities and our expenses and costs are denominated in USD, New Israeli Shekels (NIS), JPY and Euros. We are, therefore, exposed to the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations. The dollar amount of our operations, which is denominated in NIS, is influenced by the timing of any change in the rate of inflation in Israel and the extent to which such change is not offset by the change in valuation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar. The dollar amount of our operations, which is denominated in JPY, is influenced by the timing of any change in the exchange rate of the USD in relation to the JPY. Such dollar amount of operations will increase if the US dollar devalues against the NIS or the JPY. Outstanding principal and interest on some of Tower’s debentures is linked to the Israeli consumer price index (CPI) and therefore, Tower’s dollar costs will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the US dollar. - 14 - Tower and Jazz’s borrowings under their respective credit facilities provide for interest based on a floating LIBOR rate, thereby exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. Furthermore, if Tower’s and/or Jazz's banks incur increased costs in financing the applicable credit facility due to changes in law or the unavailability of foreign currency, they may exercise their right to increase the interest rate on the credit facility or require Tower and/or Jazz to bear such increased cost as provided for in the respective credit facility agreement. Tower regularly engages in various hedging strategies to reduce its exposure to some, but not all, of these risks and intends to continue to do so in the future. However, despite any such hedging activity, Tower is likely to remain exposed to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations and inflation, which may increase the cost of its operating and financing activities. We depend on intellectual property rights of third parties and failure to maintain or acquire licenses could harm our business. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide certain foundry services and design support to our customers. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, the design and production of our customers’ products could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our intellectual property vendors goes out of business, liquidates, merges with, or is acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor’s previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements may impact our margins and operating results. Failure to comply with the intellectual property rights of third parties or to defend our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defending our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. We have been subject to intellectual property claims from time to time, some of which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. From time to time, we are a party to litigation matters incidental to the conduct of our business. Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be a party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: · negotiating cross-license agreements; · seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; - 15 - · discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we are unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; · litigating the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or · seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one or several of these alternatives could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses or if we will be involved in litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters, it could prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. As of December 31, 2013, we held 215 patents in force. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some countries. We cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights and it may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in certain countries. Further, we cannot assure you that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business and results of operations. We could be seriously harmed by failure to comply with environmental regulations. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Israel, the U.S. and Japan relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in Tower’s production processes in Israel, in Jazz’s production processes in California and in TJP’s and TPSC’s facilities in Japan. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. In addition, there is a risk of environmental liability which may result if decommissioning and sale of Fab 4’s assets in the course of ceasing its operations is not done in compliance with applicable environmental regulations. We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fire. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. TPSC’s fabs are located in Japan in a location where natural disaster events such as earthquakes and snow storms occasionally occur, which may lead to fire in the fabs or other material damage. Although we maintain insurance policies to reduce potential losses that may be caused by fire, including business interruption insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses due to a fire. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, and if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it may reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, caused by a fire may result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in our fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. - 16 - Possible product returns could harm our business. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers’ prior agreed upon specifications. Although product returns have historically been less than 1% of revenues, future product returns in excess of established provisions, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have generated substantial revenue from customers located in Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: · we price our products primarily in US dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the US dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our revenue; · the burdens and costs of compliance with foreign government regulation, as well as compliance with a variety of foreign laws; · general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, international terrorism, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business; · imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other trade barriers and restrictions, including the timing and availability of export licenses and permits; · adverse tax rules and regulations; · weak protection of our intellectual property rights; · delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, Israel, the United States, Japan and other foreign countries may implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. The geographical distance between Israel, the United States, Japan and the rest of Asia and Europe also creates a number of logistical and communication challenges. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently mitigate the risks related to our international operations. - 17 - Our business could suffer if we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We depend on the continued services of our senior executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel due to resignation, medical absence, illness or other reasons, and we cannot find and integrate adequate replacement personnel into our senior management, business or operations in a timely manner. In particular, with respect to the recently acquired TPSC fabs, employees are in the process of being transferred from Panasonic Corporation and therefore there is a risk that we may not be able to retain the services of some of these key personnel, as the employees’ consent is required and may be cancelled at their discretion under applicable laws of Japan. In such case, there is no assurance that we will be able to find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into the operations at TPSC in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. Our ability to retain existing personnel and attract new personnel is in part dependent on the compensation packages we offer. As demand for qualified personnel increases, we may be forced to increase the compensation levels and to adjust the cash, equity and other components of compensation we offer our personnel. Our business plan is premised on the increasing use of outsourced foundry services by both fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers for the production of semiconductors using specialty process technologies. Our business may not be successful if this trend does not continue to develop in the manner we expect. We operate as an independent semiconductor foundry focused primarily on specialty process technologies. Our business model assumes that demand for these processes within the semiconductor industry will grow and follow the broader trend towards outsourcing foundry operations. Although the use of foundries is established and growing for standard CMOS processes, the use of outsourced foundry services for specialty process technologies is less common and may never develop into a significant part of the semiconductor industry. If fabless companies and vertically integrated device manufacturers choose not to access independent specialty foundry capacity, the manufacture of specialty process technologies may not follow the trend of standard CMOS processes. If the broader trend to outsourced foundry services does not prove applicable to the specialty process technologies that we are focused on, our business, results of operations and cash flow may be harmed. If we are unable to collaborate successfully with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies to meet our customers’ design needs, our business could be harmed. We have established relationships with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies. We work together with these vendors to develop complete design kits that our customers can use to meet their design needs using our process technologies. Our ability to meet our customers’ design needs successfully depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies provided by electronic design automation vendors and design service providers, and on whether we, together with these providers, are able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs, and thereby harm our business. - 18 - Failure to comply with existing or future governmental regulations could reduce our sales or increase our manufacturing costs. The semiconductors we produce and the export of technologies used in our manufacturing processes may be subject to U.S., Israeli and/or Japanese export control and other regulations as well as various standards established by authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with existing or evolving U.S., Israeli, Japanese or other governmental regulation or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, could materially harm our business by reducing our sales, requiring modifications to processes that we license to foreign third parties, or requiring modifications that may be too extensive to the products of our customers. Our business may be adversely affected if less stringent governmental controls are imposed on our foreign competitors’ processes or their customers’ products, thereby making our foreign competitors more competitive in the global market. If the integrated circuits we manufacture are integrated into defective products, we may be subject to product liability or other claims which could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our customers integrate our custom integrated circuits into their products which they then sell to end users. If these products are defective or malfunction, we may be subject to product liability claims, as well as possible recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices relating to the product. We cannot assure you that our insurance policies will be adequate to satisfy claims that may be made against us. Also, we may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and our ability to attract and retain customers. A significant portion of Fab 3’s workforce is unionized, and its operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions which may disrupt its production and adversely affect the yield of its fab. A significant portion of Fab 3’s employees at the Newport Beach, California fab are represented by a union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire in March 2015. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on Fab 3’s business. We cannot assure you that Fab 3 will not experience a material work stoppage, strike or other collective action in the future, which may disrupt its production and adversely affect its customer relations and operational results. Our production yields and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Fab 1 and Fab 2 are located in an area near the Syrian-African rift valley, which is known to have seismic activity. Fab 3 is located in southern California, a region known for seismic activity. Fab 4, as well as the TPSC Fabs are located in Japan, which is generally susceptible to seismic activity. Due to the complex and delicate nature of our manufacturing processes, our facilities are particularly sensitive to the effects of vibrations associated with even minor earthquakes. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. We cannot be certain that precautions that any of our fabs have taken to seismically upgrade the fabs will be adequate to protect our facilities in the event of a major earthquake, and any resulting damage could seriously disrupt production and result in reduced revenues. In addition, we have no insurance coverage which may compensate us for losses that may be incurred in Fab 3, Fab 4 and the TPSC Fabs as a result of earthquakes, and any such losses or damages incurred by us may have a material adverse effect on our business. - 19 - The production line may stop for short or long periods of time due to power outages, water leaks, chemical leaks and other causes, which may adversely affect our cycle time, yield, and on schedule delivery, thereby potentially causing an immediate loss of a material amount of revenue for the current and coming quarter or quarters, which would adversely affect our revenue, profitability and short term financial forecasts as compared to our original estimations. There are many events that may adversely affect the manufacturing process running in a facility. From time to time, there are events such as power outages, water leaks and chemical leaks that may adversely affect our cycle time, yield and on schedule delivery. In such events, we try to mitigate any potential damage caused by such events and have insurance coverage which we believe to be sufficient. However, we cannot ensure that such events will have no negative effect on the Company. Such events may potentially cause an immediate loss of a material amount of revenue for the current and coming quarter or quarters, which would adversely affect our revenue, profitability and short term financial forecasts as compared to our original estimations. Climate change may negatively affect our business. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring and may have dramatic effects on human activity if no aggressive remediation steps are taken. Public expectations with respect to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. Scientific examination of, political attention to and rules and regulations on issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change may result in increased production costs due to increase in the prices of energy and introduction of energy or carbon tax. A variety of regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Enterprises may need to purchase new equipment at higher costs or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted may adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental regulations, such as those on the use of per fluorinated compounds, may increase our production costs, which may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, more frequent droughts and floods, extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels may occur due to climate change. For example, transportation suspension caused by extreme weather conditions may harm the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of disasters or climate change. Compliance with the US Conflict Minerals Law may affect our ability or the ability of our suppliers to purchase raw materials at an effective cost. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC") or adjoining countries, which include Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Angola, Congo, and Central African Republic. These minerals are commonly referred to as conflict minerals. Conflict minerals which may be used in our industry or by our suppliers include Columbite-tantalite (derivative of tantalum [Ta]), Cassiterite (derivative of tin [Sn]), gold [Au], Wolframite (derivative of tungsten [W]), and Cobalt [Co]. The SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements with respect to use of conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products.. There may also be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Although we expect that we and our vendors will be able to comply with the requirements, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to gather all the information required from our vendors. In addition, there is increasing public sentiment that companies should avoid using conflict materials from the DRC and adjoining countries. Although we believe our suppliers do not rely on such conflict materials, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of materials needed for our production from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries. A failure to obtain necessary information or to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. - 20 - Risks relating to construction activities adjacent to Fab 3. Jazz leases its fabrication facilities and headquarters under lease contracts that may be extended until 2027, through the exercise of options at Jazz’s sole discretion to extend the lease periods from 2017 to 2022 and from 2022 to 2027. In 2010, the properties which Jazz leases for its fabrication facilities and headquarters were sold to a real estate investment firm based in Irvine, California. In connection with the sale, Jazz negotiated amendments to its operating leases that confirm Jazz’s ability to remain in the fabrication facilities through 2027 as described above. In the amendments to its leases, Jazz secured various contractual safeguards designed to limit and mitigate any adverse impact of construction activities on its fabrication operations. Although Jazz does not anticipate a material adverse impact to its operations, it is possible that construction activities adjacent to Jazz’s fabrication facility could result in temporary reductions or interruptions in the supply of utilities to the property and that a portion or all of the fabrication facility may need to be idled temporarily during development. If construction activities limit or interrupt the supply of water, gas or electricity to Fab 3 or cause significant vibrations or other disruptions, it could limit or delay Fab 3’s production, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, an unplanned power outage caused by construction activities, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in Fab 3’s yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. In relation to the amendment to the lease contract, Jazz may incur substantial costs in order to reach required noise mitigation which may affect our results. Risks Related to Our Securities Tower's outstanding debentures are subordinated to Tower's indebtedness to its banks and obligations to secured creditors and Jazz’s notes are subordinated to Jazz's secured indebtedness to its bank. Tower's outstanding debentures are subordinated to (i) approximately $131 million in the aggregate payable to the banks as of December 31, 2013 under Tower’s amended facility agreement and (ii) any obligations to the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor under the Investment Center’s “Approved Enterprise” program in relation to Fab 2. Tower has not guaranteed any of Jazz's debt, including Jazz's debt under its bank loan and Jazz's debt to its note holders. In addition, Jazz's notes are subordinated to approximately $19 million payable in regard to Jazz's secured bank loans as of December 31, 2013. As a result, upon any distribution to Tower or Jazz’s creditors, as applicable, in liquidation or reorganization or similar proceedings, these secured creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to Tower or Jazz’s outstanding debentures or note holders, as applicable. In any of these circumstances, Tower, or Jazz, as applicable, may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all of their respective debentures or notes then outstanding. In addition, neither Tower nor Jazz, as applicable, is permitted under the terms of their respective facility agreements to make a payment on account of their respective debentures or notes, as applicable, if on the date of such payment an “Event of Default” exists under the applicable facility agreement. - 21 - Tower’s stock market price and Tower’s debentures’ traded price may be volatile in the future. Fluctuations in the market price of our traded securities may significantly affect our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses and our ability to issue new securities. The shares stock market and the Israeli convertibles debentures and straight bonds markets in general, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the related companies. The stock prices for many companies in the semiconductor industry have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Tower’s equity and debt securities regardless of Tower’s actual operating performance. In addition, it is possible that Tower’s operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, in which case, the price of Tower’s securities may underperform or fall. Fluctuations in price of Tower's equity and debt securities may impact our financial results as such factors serve as inputs in our fair value measurement of financial instruments, as well as certain embedded features, which are presented at fair value under prevailing accounting standards. Fluctuation in the market price of such securities or of our share price may cause a significant fluctuation in our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, which may harm our ability to accurately forecast our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, our reported net profit or loss and our reported earnings or losses per share, and may cause our gross and operating profits to result in a net loss, increase our net loss or reduce our net profits. This non-cash appreciation in our obligations and financing expenses will either eventually be reversed or be converted into shareholders’ equity, or a combination thereof. Such adverse fluctuations in the market price of our equity and debt securities may also result in difficulties in our ability to issue new securities to finance our growth plans, obligations and liabilities. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s shares or securities or conversion or exercise of a material portion of securities into shares or issuance of new ordinary shares, or even the perception that such may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s shares, impair our ability to raise future capital through the sale of Tower securities and limit our ability to fund our growth plans, long-term debt and other liabilities, which may have adverse effects on our business and financial position. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s shares or securities, or even the perception that such sales may occur, may lower the price of Tower’s ordinary shares. The majority of Tower’s outstanding ordinary shares as of March 31, 2014 are held by non-affiliates and are freely tradable under US securities laws. The balance is held by the Israel Corporation, our major shareholder. Some of these shares are, or may be, registered for resale and therefore are, or could be, freely tradable under US securities laws, and the balance are eligible for sale subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the US Securities Act of 1933. In addition, as described below, a substantial number of Tower ordinary shares are issuable under capital notes, options, warrants and convertible debentures. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s shares or securities, or a conversion or exercise of a material portion of such convertible securities, or issuance of new ordinary shares, or even the perception that such sales, conversions, exercises or issuances may occur could depress the market price of Tower ordinary shares and may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of Tower securities and limit our ability to fund our growth plans, long-term debt and other liabilities, which may have adverse effects on our business and financial position. - 22 - Any inability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control attestation or any SEC filing requirement may adversely affect our financial position. We are subject to the reporting and filing requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC, as directed by Section 404(a) of the United States Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report assessing the company’s effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation thereof by its auditors in its annual report. Our management and/or our auditors may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Such a conclusion could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares and our ability to access the capital markets. In addition, we are required to file reports and other information with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the regulations thereunder applicable to foreign private issuers the company, see also item 10–Additional Information -- Documents on Display. Failure by us to file reports and other information with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the regulations thereunder may result in filing or other deficiency and negatively impact the market price of our shares and our ability to access the capital markets, thereby adversely affecting our financial position. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Instability in Israel may harm our business. Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities and certain of its corporate and sales offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel has been and is subject to armed conflict with neighboring states and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not adversely impact our business in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in Israel. We could experience serious disruption to our manufacturing in Israel if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to said manufacturing facilities. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may incurred, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, Israeli personnel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of Israeli military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Many male Israeli citizens, including most of Tower's male employees under the age of 40, are subject to compulsory military reserve service and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations in Israel could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Such disruption could harm our operations. - 23 - If the exemption allowing us to operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week is not renewed, our business will be adversely affected. We operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week pursuant to an exemption from the law that requires businesses in Israel to be closed from sundown on Friday through sundown on Saturday. This exemption expires by its terms on December 31, 2014. If the exemption is not renewed in the future and we are forced to close either or both of the Israeli facilities for this period each week, our financial results and business will be harmed. It may be difficult to enforce a US judgment against us, our officers, directors and advisors or to assert US securities law claims in Israel. Tower is incorporated in Israel. Most of Tower’s executive officers and directors and our Israeli accountants and attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of Tower’s assets (excluding its foreign subsidiaries and their assets) and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States, against Tower or any of these persons, in US or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws, except to the extent that such judgment could be enforced in the U.S. against Tower’s U.S. subsidiaries. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under US federal securities laws claimed in original actions instituted in Israel. 