RISK FACTORS This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. RISKS AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS IF WE DO NOT CLOSE THE $100 MILLION INVESTMENT OF ISRAEL CORP. AND A DEFINITIVE AMENDMENT TO OUR FACILITY AGREEMENT BASED ON THE TERMS OF THE MAY 2006 MOU WITH OUR BANKS, WE MAY HAVE TO SUSPEND OUR PLAN TO RAMP-UP FAB 2 PRODUCTION CAPACITY, WHICH WOULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY. We currently expect to have sufficient liquidity at least until the end of 2006 to meet our short-term activities and liabilities. However, if we fail to close in a timely manner the $100 million investment by Israel Corp. and a definitive amendment to our facility agreement with our banks based on the May 2006 MOU, we may be required to suspend the implementation of our current plan to ramp-up Fab 2 production capacity to approximately 24,000 wafers per month (See "Item 4 - Information on the Company - A. History and Development of the Company - Recent Developments"), which would materially adversely affect our company and may cause us to cease our operations. IF WE DO NOT COMPLETE THE EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION, TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND RAMP-UP OF PRODUCTION IN FAB 2, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Fab 2 production capacity as of May 31, 2006 was approximately 15,000 200-mm wafers per month. In March 2006, our board of directors approved a plan to ramp-up Fab 2 production capacity to a capacity of approximately 24,000 wafers per month. Depending on the process technology and product mix, when fully ramped-up, we estimate that Fab 2 will be able to achieve capacity levels of approximately 40,000 wafers per month. We have not completed the acquisition, installation, equipping and financing necessary in order for production at our Fab 2 facility to reach such levels. Our determination as to the timing of the implementation of the ramp-up plan recently approved by our board of directors and the increase in Fab 2's production levels is dependent on prevailing and forecasted market conditions and our ability to fund these increases. We need to continue to develop new process technologies for Fab 2 in order to suit our customers' needs. The ramp-up of Fab 2 is a substantial and complex project. We have and may in the future experience difficulties that are customary in the installation, functionality and operation of equipment during manufacturing. Failures or delays in obtaining and installing the necessary equipment, technology and other resources may delay the completion of the ramp-up of Fab 2 and add to its cost, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 5 IF WE DO NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO FULLY EQUIP FAB 2, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Fab 2's cost is estimated to be approximately $1.5 billion, including costs of construction, equipment, installation, libraries, intellectual property, technology transfers and other related ramp-up and pre-operation costs. However, the actual total cost of Fab 2 may exceed our estimates. If we cannot successfully raise sufficient funding to complete the ramp-up and to fund other related costs, we may be unable to meet our customers' production demands and as a result we may lose customers and may not attract new ones. In addition, we will be required to scale back our equipment purchases and capacity forecasts, and, as a result, we will not fully utilize the substantial investment made in constructing Fab 2, which will adversely affect our financial results. IF THE INVESTMENT CENTER WILL NOT APPROVE OUR REQUEST FOR A NEW EXPANSION PROGRAM, WE WOULD BE REQUIRED TO SEEK ALTERNATIVE FINANCING SOURCES TO COMPLETE THE RAMP-UP OF FAB 2, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. OUR NOT COMPLETING INVESTMENTS IN THE AMOUNT OF $1.25 BILLION BY THE END OF 2005 MAY RESULT IN THE INVESTMENT CENTER REQUIRING US TO REPAY ALL OR A PORTION OF THE GRANTS ALREADY RECEIVED, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REFUND SUCH GRANTS, WE MAY HAVE TO CLOSE OUR OPERATIONS. In connection with Fab 2, we received approval for grants and tax benefits from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (Investment Center) under its Approved Enterprise Program. Under the terms of the approval, we were eligible to receive grants of 20% of up to $1.25 billion invested in Fab 2 plant and equipment, or an aggregate of up to $250 million. As of May 31, 2006, we received approximately $161 million in grants from the Investment Center. Our eligibility to receive grants is with respect to investments in Fab 2 plant and equipment made by the end of 2005. Any failure by us to meet the conditions of our grants may result in the cancellation of all or a portion of our grants to be received and tax benefits and in the Investment Center requiring us to repay all or a portion of grants already received. We did not complete investments in the amount of $1.25 billion by the end of 2005, mainly since we reduced our rate of annual investments as a result of our decision to slow-down the ramp-up of our Fab 2 facility in order to align our capital investments with market conditions in the semiconductor industry. Israeli law limits the ability of the Investment Center to extend this time limitation, unless approved through an expansion plan. Under Israeli law, our not completing investments in an amount of $1.25 billion by the end of 2005 may permit the Investment Center to require us to repay all or a portion of grants already received. We have been holding discussions with the Investment Center to achieve satisfactory arrangements to approve a new expansion program to commence as of January 1, 2006. In 2005, at the Investment Center's request, we submitted a revised business plan to the Investment Center for the period commencing January 1, 2006. Currently, we cannot estimate when we will receive a formal response to our request for a new expansion program to commence as of January 1, 2006 or if the Investment Center will approve our request. If the Investment Center will not approve our request for a new expansion program, we would be required to seek alternative financing sources to finance the ramp-up of Fab 2 and if we do not succeed in finding such alternative financing sources, we may have to close our operations. While there can be no assurance that we will obtain the Investment Center's approval for the new expansion program, we believe that it is improbable that the Investment Center would demand that we repay all or a portion of grants already received due to our not completing investments in an amount of $1.25 billion by the end of 2005. If we would have to repay the Investment Center all or a portion of grants already received, we would need to seek alternative financing sources to refund the grants we received and if we do not succeed in finding such alternative financing sources, we may have to close our operations. 6 IF OUR FUTURE OPERATIONS DO NOT INCREASE OR IF WE FAIL TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDING, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REPAY OUR DEBT ON A TIMELY BASIS. There is no assurance that our future operations will increase or that we will succeed in raising the additional funding required for the completion of the ramp up of Fab 2 and the repayment of our short-term and long-term debt, which consists mainly of bank debt, trade accounts payable and convertible debentures and also includes moneys we may owe to Israel Corp. in connection with the agreement we signed with it according to which Israel Corp. will order up to approximately $100 million worth of equipment. As a result, our ramp-up of Fab 2 may be delayed and we may be unable to repay on time or repay at all our short-term and long-term debt, which may significantly harm our financial results or cause us to cease our operations. In accordance with our amended facility agreement with our banks, under which we have drawn down approximately $526.7 million as of June 30, 2006, we are required to repay principal in the amount of approximately $100 million in July 2007 and begin repaying the balance of the principal amount on a quarterly basis commencing September 2007. We anticipate that we will not be in compliance with the repayment schedule set forth in our amended facility agreement. In the event that (i) a definitive amendment to our facility agreement based on the May 2006 MOU with our banks will not be signed and closed, (ii) we are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule or (iii) our banks do not waive our non-compliance, pursuant to the terms of our amended facility agreement, our banks may require us to immediately repay all loans made by them to us, plus penalties, and they would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under our credit amended facility, including enforcement of their lien against all our assets. This would have a material adverse effect on our company. In addition, we cannot assure you we will be successful at negotiating price reductions and arrangements to slow down or postpone payments to our suppliers and service providers, or negotiating revised repayment schedules of our other debt, when we have liquidity problems. THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE RESULTING PERIODIC OVERCAPACITY HAVE ADVERSELY AFFECTED OUR BUSINESS IN THE PAST, RESULTING IN A HISTORY OF LOSSES; DOWNWARD PRICE PRESSURE MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories, leading to rapid erosion of average sale prices. We expect this pattern to repeat itself in the future. The overcapacity and downward price pressures characteristic of a prolonged downturn in the semiconductor market may not allow us to operate at a profit, even at full utilization, and could seriously harm our financial results and business. 7 WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND EXPECT TO OPERATE AT A LOSS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE; OUR FACILITIES MUST OPERATE AT HIGH UTILIZATION RATES FOR US TO BE PROFITABLE. We have operated at a loss for the last number of years. Because fixed costs represent a substantial portion of the operating costs of semiconductor manufacturing operations, we must operate our facilities at high utilization rates for us to be profitable. We began construction of Fab 2 in 2001 and Fab 2 operations began in 2003. Our losses since 2003 are due primarily to significant depreciation and amortization expenses related mainly to Fab 2, as well as financing and operating expenses which have not yet been offset by a sufficient increase in the level of our sales. If we do not succeed in operating our facilities at high utilization rates, we expect to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our business and company. OUR OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO PREDICT OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: o The cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; o Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; o Shifts by integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and customers between internal and outsourced production; o Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; o The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivables in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers; o The occurrence of accounts receivables write-offs; o The rescheduling or cancellation of large orders or planned capital expenditures; o Our ability to satisfy our customers' demand for quality and timely production; o The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; o Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; o Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fires or explosions; o Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; o Our ability to continue with existing and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; o Actual capital expenditures exceeding planned capital expenditures; 8 o Interest and currency rate fluctuations that may not be adequately hedged; o Technological changes and short product life cycles; and o Timing for designing and the qualification of new products. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company. THE LACK OF A SIGNIFICANT BACKLOG RESULTING FROM OUR CUSTOMERS NOT PLACING PURCHASE ORDERS FAR IN ADVANCE MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO FORECAST OUR REVENUES IN FUTURE PERIODS. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. OUR SALES CYCLES MAY BE LONG AND, AS A RESULT, ORDERS RECEIVED MAY NOT MEET OUR EXPECTATIONS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our sales cycles, which measure the time between our first contact with a customer and the first shipment of product orders to the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results may be adversely affected. DEMAND FOR OUR FOUNDRY SERVICES IS DEPENDENT ON THE DEMAND IN OUR CUSTOMERS' END MARKETS. We are ramping-up Fab 2 based on our expectations of customer demand and our financial resources. In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products using these services must develop and expand. For example, the success of our imaging process technologies will depend, in part, on the growth of markets for certain image sensor product applications. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenues. 9 IF WE DO NOT ATTRACT ADDITIONAL CUSTOMERS, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During the three months ended March 31, 2006, approximately 55% of our business was generated by four significant customers that contributed 18%, 14%, 12%, and 11% of our revenues, respectively. We expect to continue to receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers in 2006. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in, the sales volume or sales prices to our significant customers, could seriously harm our financial results, revenues and business. Since the sales cycle for our services typically exceeds one year, if our customers order significantly fewer wafers than forecasted, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to sell in a short period of time, resulting in lower utilization of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices in order to try to sell the excess capacity. In addition to the revenue loss that could result from unused capacity or lower sales prices, we might have difficulty adjusting our costs to reflect the lower revenues in a timely manner, which could harm our financial results. WE DEPEND ON A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF PRODUCTS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES. From time to time, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of very high volume products that are shipped to volatile consumer-oriented markets. The volume of orders of such products may adversely change or demand for such products may be abruptly discontinued. We expect that in the foreseeable future we will continue to be dependent upon a relatively limited number of products for a significant portion of our revenue due to the nature of our business. We cannot assure you that revenue generated from these products, individually or in the aggregate, will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. A decrease in the price of, or demand for, any of these products could negatively impact our financial results. IF WE DO NOT RECEIVE ORDERS FROM OUR WAFER PARTNERS WE MAY HAVE EXCESS CAPACITY. We have committed a portion of our Fab 2 capacity for future orders. During the ramp-up of Fab 2, our capacity commitments to our wafer partners, which are SanDisk Corporation, Alliance Semiconductor Corporation, Macronix International Co. Ltd. and Quicklogic Corporation, are limited to approximately 50% of our Fab 2 capacity. Parties to whom we have committed capacity are generally not obligated to utilize or pay for all or any portion of their allocated capacity, and generally provide and confirm their orders to us less than one month before the production start date. If these parties do not place orders with us, and if we are unable to fill such unutilized capacity, our financial results may be adversely affected. IF WE DO NOT MAINTAIN AND DEVELOP OUR TECHNOLOGY PROCESSES AND SERVICES, WE WILL LOSE CUSTOMERS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT NEW ONES. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: o rapid technological developments; o evolving industry standards; o changes in customer and product end user requirements; 10 o frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and o short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. In order to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers, we must continue to advance our manufacturing process technologies. We are developing and introducing to production specialized process technologies. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable operations depends on the successful development and introduction to production of these processes, which we may not achieve in a timely manner or at all. IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE WILL LOSE BUSINESS TO OUR COMPETITORS. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including new foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over twenty integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close proximity to other companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, or ICs. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: o greater manufacturing capacity; o multiple and more advanced manufacturing facilities; o more advanced technological capabilities; o a more diverse and established customer base; o greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; o a better cost structure; and/or o better operational performance in cycle time and yields. WE HAVE A LARGE AMOUNT OF DEBT WHICH COULD HAVE SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES. We have a large amount of long-term debt, which could have significant negative consequences. As of June 30, 2006, we had approximately $526.7 million of bank debt and approximately $90 million of convertible debt (including approximately $37 million of convertible debt issued on June 29, 2006). Our current and future indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: o requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness; o increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 11 o limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; o limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; o placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and/or o affecting our ability to make interest payments and other required debt service on our indebtedness. IF WE FAIL TO SATISFY THE COVENANTS SET FORTH IN OUR AMENDED CREDIT FACILITY, OUR BANKS WILL BE ABLE TO CALL OUR LOANS. Our credit facility, under which we have drawn down approximately $526.7 million as of June 30, 2006, requires that we comply with certain financial, capital raising and production milestone covenants. In the July 2005 amendment to our credit facility agreement, our banks agreed to amend our financial ratios and covenants through the third quarter of 2006. We anticipate that we will not be in compliance with all of the financial ratios and covenants under the amended facility agreement commencing in the fourth quarter of 2006. In the event that (i) a definitive amendment to our facility agreement based on the May 2006 MOU with our banks will not be signed and closed, (ii) we are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating revised financial, capital raising and production milestone covenants or (iii) our banks do not waive our non-compliance, pursuant to the terms of our amended facility agreement our banks may require us to immediately repay all loans made by them to us, plus penalties, and they would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under the credit facility, including enforcement of their lien against all our assets. This would have a material adverse effect on our company. ISRAELI BANKING LAWS MAY IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THE TOTAL DEBT THAT WE MAY BORROW FROM OUR BANKS. Pursuant to an amendment to a directive published by the Israel Supervisor of Banks, effective March 31, 2004, we may be deemed part of a group of borrowers comprised of the Ofer Brothers Group, Israel Corp., and other companies which are also included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive, including companies under the control or deemed control of these entities. The directive imposes limitations on amounts that banks may lend to borrowers or groups of borrowers. Should our banks exceed these limitations, they may limit our ability to borrow other money in the future and may require us to return some or all of our outstanding borrowings (which were approximately $526.7 million as of June 30, 2006), which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 IF WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN ACHIEVING ACCEPTABLE DEVICE YIELDS, PRODUCT PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY TIMES AS A RESULT OF MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture a wafer and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We have from time to time experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays or returns and lower than expected device yields. We may also experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Any of these problems could seriously harm our financial results and business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PURCHASE EQUIPMENT AND RAW MATERIALS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY FASHION, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A LOSS OF EXISTING AND POTENTIAL NEW CUSTOMERS. To complete the ramp-up of our Fab 2 facility and to maintain the quality of production in our facilities, we must procure new equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In many instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry demand. Any such shortages could result in production delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. OUR EXPOSURE TO CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE FLUCTUATIONS MAY INCREASE OUR COST OF OPERATIONS. Almost all of our cash generated from operations and from our financing and investing activities is denominated in U.S. dollars and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Our expenses and costs are denominated in NIS, U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros. We are, therefore, exposed to the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our borrowings under our Fab 2 credit facility provide for interest based on a floating LIBOR rate, thereby exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. Furthermore, if our banks incur increased costs in financing our Fab 2 credit facility due to changes in law or the unavailability of foreign currency, our banks may exercise their right to increase the interest rate on our Fab 2 credit facility as provided for in the credit facility agreement. We regularly engage in various hedging strategies to reduce our exposure to some, but not all, of these risks and intend to continue to do so in the future. However, despite any such hedging activity, we are likely to remain exposed to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations, which may increase the cost of our operating and financing activities. 13 WE DEPEND ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES AND FAILURE TO MAINTAIN OR ACQUIRE LICENSES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide foundry and design services to our clients. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, our customers' design and production could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our third party intellectual property right vendors go out of business, liquidate, merge with, or are acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor's previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements may impact our margins and operating results. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES OR DEFEND OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defend our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. There are no lawsuits currently pending against us regarding the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others nor are we currently a plaintiff in any such action against other parties. However, we have been subject to such claims in the past, all of which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. One of these agreements expired at the end of 2005, and we are currently negotiating its renewal. If we are unable to renew it on similar terms, we may have to agree to less favorable terms or consider other alternatives, including designing around certain processes. Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be a party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: o negotiating cross-license agreements; o seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; o discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; o fighting the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or o seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one or several of these developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses and if litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. 14 As of March 31, 2006, we held 58 patents worldwide. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. WE COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED BY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Israel relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production processes. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISK OF LOSS DUE TO FIRE BECAUSE THE MATERIALS WE USE IN OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES ARE HIGHLY FLAMMABLE. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, or if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it would reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. POSSIBLE PRODUCT RETURNS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers' prior agreed upon specifications. Product returns in excess of established provisions may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPAY GRANTS TO THE INVESTMENT CENTER THAT WE RECEIVED IN CONNECTION WITH FAB 1. We received grants and tax benefits for Fab 1 under the government of Israel Approved Enterprise program. As of December 31, 2001, we completed our investments under our Fab 1 program and are no longer entitled to any further investment grants for future capital investments in Fab 1. We have agreed that if we do not achieve Fab 1 revenues of $90 million for 2003 and $100 million for 2004 and maintain at Fab 1 at least 600 employees for 2003 and 625 employees for 2004, subject to prevailing market conditions, we will, if demanded by the Investment Center, be required to repay the Investment Center up to approximately $2.5 million. Since our actual level of Fab 1 revenues and employees for 2003 and 2004 were not in compliance with the above mentioned levels, we may be required to repay the Investment Center up to approximately $2.5 million. 15 WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Since 2003, we have made substantial sales to customers located in Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: o we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the U.S. dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our sales; o the need to comply with foreign government regulation; o general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; o natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business, such as the earthquakes experienced in China, Japan and Taiwan; o reduced sales to our customers or interruption in our manufacturing processes in Asia Pacific that may arise from regional issues in Asia; o imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; o adverse tax rules and regulations; o weak protection of our intellectual property rights; and o delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions. OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel and we cannot find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. We may need to review employee compensation competitiveness with the purpose of retaining our existing officers and employees and attracting and retaining additional personnel, including granting large packages of options to purchase our ordinary shares. 16 RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE IN THE FUTURE. The stock market, in general, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the stock prices for many companies in the semiconductor industry have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our securities may under perform or fall. ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES PURSUANT TO OUR FAB 2 FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS AND OPTIONS GRANTED TO OUR FAB 2 BUILDING CONTRACTOR, EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS MAY DILUTE THE INTEREST OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS. In connection with Fab 2, we have issued as of May 19, 2006, approximately 65.3 million ordinary shares to our wafer and equity partners and other shareholders. In December 2003, we issued to our banks and to one of our shareholders warrants exercisable into 896,596 and 58,906 ordinary shares, respectively, with an exercise price of $6.17. In addition, in connection with the July 2005 amendment to our credit facility agreement, we issued warrants to our banks exercisable into an aggregate 8,264,464 ordinary shares with an exercise price of $1.21, one-half of which shall only be exercisable if our banks agree to reschedule the repayment dates of the loans made to us under the July 2005 amendment. As of May 19, 2006, up to approximately 51.4 million additional ordinary shares may be issued upon the conversion of our 2002 outstanding convertible debentures, 2005 outstanding convertible debentures and upon exercise of warrants held by some of our shareholders and others. With the completion of the TASE offering described below, securities convertible into and/or exercisable for the purchase of an additional approximately 41 million ordinary shares have also been issued. In addition, as of April 30, 2006, we had outstanding employee and directors options to purchase up to approximately 13 million shares at a weighted average exercise price of $4.15. We have also entered into a number of agreements which may result in our issuing large numbers of shares, particularly if we complete the transactions contemplated by these agreements at a time when our share price is low. For example, we have agreed that our three major wafer partners may elect to convert, on a quarterly basis through 2006, wafer credits we have issued to them into our ordinary shares rather than use these credits to reduce their cash payments for wafers manufactured in Fab 2, based on the average trading price of our ordinary shares during the 15 consecutive trading days preceding the relevant quarter. As of May 19, 2006, we had issued approximately 2.2 million of our ordinary shares to SanDisk Corporation and approximately 2.6 million ordinary shares to Alliance Semiconductor upon conversion of approximately $7.6 million of wafer credits. Following such conversions, an aggregate of approximately $30 million of credits issued to our three major wafer partners were outstanding as of May 19, 2006. 17 The MOU we signed with our banks contemplates the issuance of 51,973,684 of our ordinary shares and, in connection thereto, Israel Corp. committed to our banks to invest $100 million in consideration for 65,789,474 of our ordinary shares. Our audit committee and board of directors approved, subject to shareholder approval, the grant of options to our CEO, in addition to the options granted to him in April 2005, such that the CEO will hold options to purchase shares that represent 4% of our shares on a fully diluted basis. Our board of directors further approved a plan to offer our current employees the opportunity to exchange their existing options to purchase our ordinary shares for new options and approved the allocation of additional options to be made to our employees if the total number of employee options, including the options to our CEO, during a 24 month period will represent less than 8% of the our shares on a fully diluted basis. In addition to the proceeds we may raise in the contemplated investment by Israel Corp., we will need to raise significant additional funds from other sources to finance (i) the ramp-up of Fab 2, which we currently estimate to be up to an additional approximately $150 million, and (ii) our payments on the long-term loans from our banks and other debt. We are engaged in discussions with potential investors in order to attract them to make investments in our company. However, no understandings have been reached with respect to the amount of any investment or the terms of any investment and there can be no assurance that any investment will be made. These investments may be for shares or for securities convertible into shares, which would materially dilute the holdings of our current shareholders. MARKET SALES OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF OUR SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY LOWER THE PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES. Of our 77,561,979 outstanding ordinary shares as of May 19, 2006, approximately 33.3 million are freely tradable and held by non-affiliates under U.S. securities laws. In addition, certain of our affiliates (Israel Corp., SanDisk Corporation, Alliance Semiconductor, and Macronix International) hold approximately 44.3 million of our shares, of which approximately 4.1 million are registered for resale and are therefore freely tradable under U.S. securities laws and approximately 35.5 million are currently eligible for sale subject to the time, volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. An additional approximately 2.6 million shares held by Alliance Semiconductor and 2 million shares held by SanDisk Corporation, will become eligible for sale subject to the time, volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 through 2007. Shares held by these affiliates are subject to the share transfer restrictions set forth in the shareholders agreement to which they are a party and which remain in effect through January 2008. As of May 19, 2006, up to 36,598,425 additional shares issuable upon the conversion of our 2005 convertible debentures are held by non-affiliates or are registered for resale and are therefore freely tradable under U.S. securities laws. In addition, 9,161,060 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants we granted to our banks are registered for resale and are therefore freely tradable under U.S. securities laws. The additional up to approximately 41 million shares issuable upon the conversion and/or exercise of the securities sold in our recently completed TASE offering, would be freely tradeable in normal trading transactions in the United States. The sales of large amounts of our ordinary shares (or the potential for those sales even if they do not actually occur) may depress the market price of our ordinary shares. This could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 18 OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS COLLECTIVELY OWN A CONTROLLING INTEREST IN US AND WILL BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THEIR VOTING RIGHTS IN WAYS WHICH MAY BE ADVERSE TO THE INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS. As of May 19, 2006, our wafer partners and Israel Corp. collectively owned approximately 57% of our outstanding shares. Under our articles of association, two shareholders holding together 33% of our outstanding shares constitute a quorum for conducting a shareholders meeting. Our wafer partners and Israel Corp. could constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting a shareholders meeting. While we have always solicited proxies from our shareholders prior to our shareholders meetings, we would have a sufficient quorum with two large shareholders even if none of our other shareholders were to participate in our shareholders meetings. If only two large shareholders, owning collectively at least 33% of our shares, were to participate in one of our shareholders meetings, these shareholders would determine the outcome of our shareholders meeting without the benefit of the participation of our other shareholders. In addition, even if our other shareholders were to participate in our shareholders meetings in person or by proxy, our wafer partners and Israel Corp. collectively control our company and may exercise this control in a manner adverse to the interests of our other shareholders. THE PAYMENT OF THE REDEMPTION AMOUNT ON ACCOUNT OF OUR OUTSTANDING DEBENTURES IS SUBORDINATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO OUR BANKS AND OBLIGATIONS TO SECURED CREDITORS. The payment of the redemption amount on account of our outstanding debentures is subordinated to the prior payment of all amounts payable by us to Bank Hapoalim B.M and Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. under our credit facility agreement with them, to any obligations to the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor related to $161 million in grants received through May 31, 2006 under the Investment Center's "Approved Enterprise" program, and to a first ranking charge in favor of Siliconix Technology C.V., on approximately $20 million of equipment purchased in connection with the performance of our obligations under our agreement with Siliconix. As a result, upon any distribution to our creditors in liquidation or reorganization or similar proceedings, these secured creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to any of our outstanding debentures. In any of these circumstances, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the debentures then outstanding. In addition, we are not permitted under the terms of our facility agreement to make a payment on account of our outstanding debentures if on the date of such payment an "Event of Default" exists under our facility agreement. WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS, INCLUDING INDEBTEDNESS THAT WOULD BE SENIOR TO OUR OUTSTANDING DEBENTURES. Although we are limited by the covenants in the facility agreement, we could enter into certain transactions that would increase the amount of our outstanding senior indebtedness. It is possible that all or part of these borrowings would be senior to our outstanding debentures. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 19 RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL INSTABILITY IN ISRAEL MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. All of our manufacturing facilities and our corporate and some of our sales offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will have no impact on our business in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in Israel, which has been experiencing civil unrest, terrorist activity and military action. We could experience serious disruption of our manufacturing if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our manufacturing facilities. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY THE OBLIGATIONS OF OUR PERSONNEL TO PERFORM MILITARY SERVICE. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. A large part of male Israeli citizens, including our employees, are subject to compulsory military reserve service through middle age. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Such disruption could harm our operations. OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE AFFECTED BY NEGATIVE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN ISRAEL. In recent years, Israel has experienced periods of recession in economic activity, resulting in low growth rates and growing unemployment. Our operations could be adversely affected if the economic conditions in Israel deteriorate. In addition, Israel has experienced several general strikes and other work stoppages, affecting banks, government offices, airports and ports. These strikes have had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on business, including our ability to deliver products to our customers or to receive raw materials from our suppliers in a timely manner. From time to time, the Israeli trade unions threaten strikes or work-stoppages, which may, if carried out, have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy and our business. 20 IF THE EXEMPTION ALLOWING US TO OPERATE OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES SEVEN DAYS A WEEK IS NOT RENEWED, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We operate our manufacturing facilities seven days a week pursuant to an exemption from the law that requires businesses in Israel to be closed from sundown on Friday through sundown on Saturday. This exemption expires by its terms on December 31, 2006. In addition, a significant increase in the number of employees permitted to work under this exemption will be needed as we ramp-up production at Fab 2. If the exemption is not renewed and we are forced to close any or all of the facilities for this period each week, our financial results and business will be harmed. 