RISK FACTORS This annual report and statements that we may make from time to time may contain forward-looking information. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations, statements or projections. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations, statements or projections include the risks and uncertainties relating to our business described below. RISKS AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS IF THE INVESTMENT CENTER WILL NOT APPROVE OUR REQUEST FOR AN EXPANSION PROGRAM, WE WOULD BE REQUIRED TO SEEK ALTERNATIVE FINANCING SOURCES TO CONTINUE THE RAMP-UP OF FAB 2, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. OUR NOT COMPLETING INVESTMENTS IN THE AMOUNT OF $1.25 BILLION BY THE END OF 2005 MAY RESULT IN THE INVESTMENT CENTER REQUIRING US TO REPAY ALL OR A PORTION OF THE GRANTS ALREADY RECEIVED AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REFUND SUCH GRANTS, WE WOULD LIKELY BE UNABLE TO FUND OUR ON-GOING OPERATIONS. - 2 - In connection with Fab 2, we received approval for grants and tax benefits from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (Investment Center) under its Approved Enterprise Program. Under the terms of the approval, we were eligible to receive grants equal to 20% of up to $1.25 billion invested in Fab 2 plant and equipment, or an aggregate of up to $250 million. As of May 31, 2008, we received a cumulative amount of approximately $165 million in grants from the Investment Center in relation to Fab 2. Our eligibility to receive grants was with respect to investments in Fab 2 plant and equipment made by the end of 2005. Any failure by us to meet the conditions of our grants may result in the cancellation of all or a portion of the grants and tax benefits and in the Investment Center requiring us to repay all or a portion of grants already received. In 2007, we submitted the final report in relation to the investments made through 2005 totaling $825 million out of the entire investment plan of $1.25 billion. The investment plan has been spread over additional years and was not completed through 2005 primarily due to the external economic conditions of worldwide markets during 2001 through 2004 and the semiconductor industry in particular following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack as well as the outbreak of the Second Intifada (Israeli-Palestinian conflict) in September 2000 which lasted until 2003. Under Israeli law, our not completing investments in an amount of $1.25 billion by the end of 2005 could result in a request from the Investment Center to repay all or a portion of grants already received, which has not been made. Israeli law limits the ability of the Investment Center to extend this time limitation, unless approved through an expansion plan. We have therefore been holding discussions with the Investment Center to achieve satisfactory arrangements to approve an expansion plan to commence as of January 1, 2006. On numerous occasions, we have received assurances and commitments from governmental authorities that such an expansion plan will be approved pending positive recommendation of an economical audit by the Industrial Bank of the Investment Center. In 2005, at the Investment Center's request, we submitted a revised business plan to the Investment Center and its Industrial Bank for the period commencing January 1, 2006. While the Industrial Bank of the Investment Center gave a positive recommendation, the governmental approval process has been protracted and as a result, in May 2008, we filed a petition with the Israeli High Court of Justice asking the Court to order that our expansion plan be brought before the relevant Israeli governmental bodies for their respective approvals without delay. During the period from January 1, 2006 through May 31, 2008, we invested approximately $230 million in Fab 2 plant and equipment. Currently, we cannot estimate when we will receive a formal response to our request for an expansion plan to commence as of January 1, 2006 or if the Investment Center will approve our request. If the Investment Center does not approve our request for an expansion plan, we would likely be required to obtain alternative financing sources, which may not be available, in order to successfully continue the ramp-up of Fab 2. While there can be no assurance that we will obtain the Investment Center's approval for the expansion plan, we believe that the likelihood that the Investment Center would demand that we repay all or a portion of grants already received due to our not completing investments in an amount of $1.25 billion by the end of 2005 is remote. If we would have to repay the Investment Center all or a portion of the grants already received, we would need to seek financing sources to refund the grants we received and if we do not succeed in finding such financing sources, we would likely be unable to fund our on-going operations. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN INVESTMENT CENTER APPROVAL FOR OUR EXPANSION PLAN OR OUR FUTURE OPERATIONS DO NOT IMPROVE OR WE DO NOT GENERATE INCREASED LEVELS OF CASH FROM OPERATIONS OR WE DO NOT RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDING OR WE DO NOT OBTAIN FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES OR MARKET CONDITIONS DO NOT IMPROVE SIGNIFICANTLY, WE WOULD LIKELY BE UNABLE TO FUND OUR ON-GOING OPERATIONS. There is no assurance that we will obtain Investment Center approval for our expansion plan (see "Risk Factors" - "If the Investment Center will not approve our request for an expansion program, we would be required to seek alternative financing sources...") or that our future operations will improve significantly or that we will generate increased levels of cash from operations or that we will succeed in raising additional funding or that we will obtain funds from other sources (including, for example, funds from a sale and lease-back of a portion of our real estate assets and/or a sale of other assets) or that market conditions (including our product prices) will improve significantly. If a portion of the above does not occur sufficiently and in a timely manner, we would likely be unable to continue the ramp up of Fab 2, and/or fund our on-going operations and/or repay our short-term and long-term debt and other liabilities, which consist mainly of banks debt, debentures, trade accounts payable and other payables. Furthermore, we can not assure you that the mitigation actions we are taking, such as cost reductions, employee layoffs and price and payment term negotiations with suppliers, will be satisfactory to overcome this position. - 3 - IF WE WILL NOT BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE REPAYMENT SCHEDULE UNDER THE AMENDED FACILITY AGREEMENT AND WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN NEGOTIATING A REVISED REPAYMENT SCHEDULE, OR IF WE FAIL TO MEET ANY OF THE COVENANTS AND FINANCIAL RATIOS STIPULATED IN OUR AMENDED FACILITY AGREEMENT AND OUR BANKS DO NOT WAIVE OUR NONCOMPLIANCE, WE WOULD LIKELY BE UNABLE TO FUND OUR ON-GOING OPERATIONS. Under our amended facility agreement with Bank Hapoalim B.M. and Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., our banks, in the event that we will not be in compliance with the repayment schedule and we are unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule, or if we fail to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in our amended facility agreement and our banks do not waive our noncompliance, our banks may require us to immediately repay all loans made by them to us, plus penalties, and they would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under our amended credit facility, including enforcement of their lien against our assets. There is no assurance that our future operations will improve significantly or that we will generate increased levels of cash from operations or that we will succeed in raising additional funding or that we will obtain funds from other sources (including, for example, funds from a sale and lease-back of a portion of our real estate assets and/or a sale of other assets) or that market conditions (including our product prices) will improve significantly. If a portion of the above does not occur sufficiently and in a timely manner, we would likely be unable to comply with the repayment schedule under the amended facility agreement and we would likely fail to meet covenants and financial ratios stipulated in it. This would have a material adverse effect on our company and we would likely be unable to fund our on-going operations unless the banks agree to a revised repayment schedule or to waive our non- compliance. IF WE DO NOT FULLY EQUIP FAB 2 AND COMPLETE THE EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION, AND RAMP-UP OF PRODUCTION IN FAB 2 TO ITS FULL CAPACITY, WE WILL NOT FULLY UTILIZE THE SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT MADE IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF FAB 2. Fab 2 production capacity as of December 31, 2007 was approximately 24,000 wafers per month. During 2008, we are implementing a capacity increase plan targeting to reach up to approximately 30,000 wafers per month, which has not yet been completed. Depending on the process technology and product mix, when fully ramped-up, we estimate that Fab 2 will be able to achieve capacity levels of approximately 44,000 wafers per month. Our determination as to the timing of the implementation of the ramp-up of Fab 2 and the increase in Fab 2's production levels is dependent on prevailing and forecasted market conditions and our ability to fund these increases. There can be no assurance as to the timing or our ability to achieve Fab 2 capacity levels of approximately 44,000 wafers per month. The ramp-up of Fab 2 is a substantial and complex project. If we cannot fund the further ramp-up of Fab 2 or otherwise successfully complete the ramp-up of Fab 2, we may be unable to meet our customers' production demands and as a result we may lose customers and may not attract new ones. In addition, if we do not acquire and install the equipment necessary to successfully complete the ramp-up of Fab 2, we will not fully utilize the substantial investment made in constructing Fab 2, which will adversely affect our financial results. In order to fully ramp-up Fab 2, we will need to continue to develop new process technologies in order to suit our customers' needs. In addition, we have and may in the future experience difficulties that are customary in the installation, functionality and operation of equipment during manufacturing. Failures or delays in obtaining and installing the necessary equipment, technology and other resources may delay the completion of the ramp-up of Fab 2, add to its cost and result in us not fully utilizing the substantial investment made in the construction of Fab 2, which would adversely affect our future financial results. - 4 - THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND THE RESULTING PERIODIC OVERCAPACITY HAVE ADVERSELY AFFECTED OUR BUSINESS IN THE PAST, RESULTING IN A HISTORY OF LOSSES; DOWNWARD PRICE PRESSURE MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories, leading to rapid erosion of average sale prices. We expect this pattern to repeat itself in the future. The overcapacity and downward price pressure characteristic of a prolonged downturn in the semiconductor market may not allow us to operate at a profit, even at full utilization, and could seriously harm our financial results and business. OUR OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO PREDICT OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: o The cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; o Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; o Shifts by integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and customers between internal and outsourced production; o Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; o The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer. The rescheduling or cancellation of large orders o The occurrence of accounts receivables write-offs, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivables in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers; o The rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; o Our ability to satisfy our customers' demand for quality and timely production; o The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; o Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; o Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fires or explosions; o Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; o Our ability to continue with existing and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; o Actual capital expenditures exceeding planned capital expenditures; o Interest, price index and currency rate fluctuations that may not be adequately hedged; - 5 - o Technological changes and short product life cycles; o Timing for designing and the qualification of new products; and o New accounting rules affecting our results including the accounting treatment of our bank debt and convertible debentures. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company, including our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. THE LACK OF A SIGNIFICANT BACKLOG RESULTING FROM OUR CUSTOMERS NOT PLACING PURCHASE ORDERS FAR IN ADVANCE MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO FORECAST OUR REVENUES IN FUTURE PERIODS. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. If orders received from our customers differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. WE OCCASIONALLY MANUFACTURE WAFERS BASED ON FORECASTED DEMAND, RATHER THAN ACTUAL ORDERS FROM CUSTOMERS. IF OUR FORECASTED DEMAND EXCEEDS ACTUAL DEMAND IT WE MAY HAVE OBSOLETE INVENTORY, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We initiate production of a majority of our wafers once we have received an order from a customer. We generally do not manufacture wafers unless we receive a customer purchase order. On occasion, we may produce wafers in excess of customer orders based on forecasted customer demand, because we may forecast future excess or because of future capacity constraints. If we manufacture more wafers than are actually ordered by customers, we may be left with excess inventory that may ultimately become obsolete and must be scrapped when it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory could have a negative impact on our results of operations. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND EXPECT TO OPERATE AT A LOSS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE; OUR FACILITIES MUST OPERATE AT HIGH UTILIZATION RATES AND WE MUST INCREASE OUR CAPACITY LEVELS IN ORDER TO REDUCE OUR LOSSES. We have operated at a loss for the last number of years. Because fixed costs represent a substantial portion of the operating costs of semiconductor manufacturing operations, we must operate our facilities at high utilization rates for us to reduce our losses. In addition, to reduce our losses, we must increase our capacity levels. We began construction of Fab 2 in 2001 and Fab 2 operations began in 2003. Our losses since 2003 are due primarily to significant depreciation and amortization expenses related mainly to Fab 2, as well as financing and operating expenses that have not yet been offset by a sufficient increase in the level of our revenues. If we do not succeed in operating our facilities at high utilization rates and in increasing our capacity levels, we expect to continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our business and company. - 6 - OUR SALES CYCLES ARE TYPICALLY LONG AND ORDERS RECEIVED MAY NOT MEET OUR EXPECTATIONS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our sales cycles, which we measure from first contact with a customer to first shipment of product ordered by the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. DEMAND FOR OUR FOUNDRY SERVICES IS DEPENDENT ON THE DEMAND IN OUR CUSTOMERS' END MARKETS. We are ramping-up Fab 2 based on our expectations of customer demand and our financial resources. In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products using these services must develop and expand. For example, the success of our imaging process technologies will depend, in part, on the growth of markets for certain image sensor product applications. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenue. IF WE DO NOT MAINTAIN OUR CURRENT CUSTOMERS AND ATTRACT ADDITIONAL CUSTOMERS, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During the three months ended March 31, 2008, approximately 66% of our business was generated by five significant customers that contributed 20%, 18%, 15%, 7% and 6% of our revenue, respectively. We expect to continue to receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in the sales volume or sales prices to, our significant customers, could seriously harm our financial results, revenue and business. Since the sales cycle for our services typically exceeds one year, if our customers order significantly fewer wafers than forecasted, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to sell in a short period of time, resulting in lower utilization of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices in order to try to sell the excess capacity. In addition to the revenue loss that could result from unused capacity or lower sales prices, we might have difficulty adjusting our costs to reflect the lower revenue in a timely manner, which could harm our financial results. WE DEPEND ON A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF PRODUCTS FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES. From time to time, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of very high volume products that are shipped to volatile consumer-oriented markets. The volume of orders of such products may adversely change or demand for such products may be abruptly discontinued. We expect that for the foreseeable future we will continue to be dependent upon a relatively limited number of products for a significant portion of our revenue due to the nature of our business. A decrease in the price of, or demand for, any of these products could negatively impact our financial results. - 7 - IF WE DO NOT RECEIVE ORDERS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS WITH WHOM WE HAVE SIGNED LONG-TERM CONTRACTS, WE MAY HAVE EXCESS CAPACITY. We have committed a portion of our capacity for future orders to our wafer partners and customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts. Parties to whom we have committed capacity are generally not obligated to utilize or pay for all or any portion of their allocated capacity, and generally provide and confirm their orders to us less than one month before the production start date. If these parties do not place orders with us in accordance with their contractual loading and purchase commitments, and if we are unable to fill such unutilized capacity, our financial results may be adversely affected. IF WE DO NOT MAINTAIN AND DEVELOP OUR TECHNOLOGY PROCESSES AND SERVICES, WE WILL LOSE CUSTOMERS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT NEW ONES. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: o rapid technological developments; o evolving industry standards; o changes in customer and product end user requirements; o frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and o short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. Our ability to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers is dependent in part on our ability to continuously develop and introduce to production advanced specialized manufacturing process technologies. Since the successful development and introduction to production of these processes may not be achieved in a timely manner or at all, we may not be able to maintain our current customer base and may not be able to attract new customers. IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE WILL LOSE BUSINESS TO OUR COMPETITORS. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over 20 integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close proximity to other companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, or ICs. In addition, many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: o greater manufacturing capacity; o multiple and more advanced manufacturing facilities; o more advanced technological capabilities; - 8 - o a more diverse and established customer base; o greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; o a better cost structure; and/or o better operational performance in cycle time and yields. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. WE HAVE A LARGE AMOUNT OF DEBT WHICH COULD HAVE SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES. We have a large amount of long-term debt and may incur additional indebtedness, which could have significant negative consequences. As of May 31, 2008, we had (i) approximately $399 million of bank debt under our amended credit facility agreement and September 2007 credit lines with the banks, (ii) $30 million outstanding under the September 2007 credit line with TIC and (iii) approximately $180 million of debt in respect of outstanding convertible and non-convertible debentures, including approximately $10 million short tern convertible debt. Our current and future indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: o requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness; o increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; o limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; o limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; o placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and/or o affecting our ability to make interest payments and other required debt service on our indebtedness. o enforcement by the banks of their lien against our assets (in the event of default). WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS. Although we are limited by the covenants in our amended credit facility agreement with our banks, we could enter into certain transactions that would increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks, including the negative consequences associated with our increased level of indebtedness, could intensify. - 9 - ISRAELI BANKING LAWS MAY IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THE TOTAL DEBT THAT WE MAY BORROW FROM OUR BANKS. Pursuant to a directive published by the Israel Supervisor of Banks, effective March 31, 2004, we may be deemed part of a group of borrowers comprised of the Ofer Brothers Group, Israel Corp., and other companies which are also included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive, including companies under the control or deemed control of these entities. The directive imposes limitations on amounts that banks may lend to borrowers or groups of borrowers. Should our banks exceed these limitations, they may limit our ability to borrow other money in the future and may require us to return some or all of our outstanding borrowings (which, under our amended credit facility agreement and our September 2007 credit lines with our banks, were approximately $399 million in the aggregate as of May 31, 2008), which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN ACHIEVING ACCEPTABLE DEVICE YIELDS, PRODUCT PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERY TIMES AS A RESULT OF MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture a wafer and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We have from time to time experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays or returns and lower than expected device yields. We may also experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Any of these problems could seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PURCHASE EQUIPMENT AND RAW MATERIALS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY FASHION, WHICH MAY RESULT IN A LOSS OF EXISTING AND POTENTIAL NEW CUSTOMERS. To complete the ramp-up of our Fab 2 facility and to maintain the quality of production in our facilities, we must procure additional equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In many instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry demand. Any such shortages could result in production delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. OUR EXPOSURE TO INFLATION AND CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE FLUCTUATIONS MAY INCREASE OUR COST OF OPERATIONS. Almost all of our cash generated from operations and our financing and investing activities is denominated in US dollars and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Our expenses and costs are denominated in NIS, US dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros. We are, therefore, exposed to the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations. - 10 - The dollar amount of our operations, which is denominated in NIS, is influenced by the timing of any change in the rate of inflation in Israel and the extent to which such change is not offset by the change in valuation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar. Outstanding principal and interest on some of our debentures is linked to the Israeli consumer price index (CPI) and therefore, our dollar costs will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the US dollar, or if the timing of such devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. The recent devaluation of the US dollar in relation to the NIS increased our dollar expenses related to our NIS denominated debentures and our NIS denominated expenses. Our borrowings under our Fab 2 credit facilities [and our and our September 2007 credit lines] provide for interest based on a floating LIBOR rate, thereby exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. Furthermore, if our banks incur increased costs in financing our Fab 2 credit facility due to changes in law or the unavailability of foreign currency, our banks may exercise their right to increase the interest rate on our Fab 2 credit facilities as provided for in the credit facility agreement. We regularly engage in various hedging strategies to reduce our exposure to some, but not all, of these risks and intend to continue to do so in the future. However, despite any such hedging activity, we are likely to remain exposed to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations and inflation, which may increase the cost of our operating and financing activities. WE DEPEND ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES AND FAILURE TO MAINTAIN OR ACQUIRE LICENSES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide certain foundry and design services to our clients. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, the design and production of our customers' products could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our third party intellectual property right vendors goes out of business, liquidate, merge with, or are acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor's previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements may impact our margins and operating results. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES OR TO DEFEND OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defending our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. There are no lawsuits currently pending against us regarding the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others nor are we currently a plaintiff in any such action against other parties. However, we have been subject to such claims in the past, all of which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. - 11 - Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be a party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: o negotiating cross-license agreements; o seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; o discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; o fighting the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or o seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one or several of these developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses or if litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. As of May 31, 2008, we held 67 patents worldwide. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. WE COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED BY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Israel relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production processes. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISK OF LOSS DUE TO FIRE BECAUSE THE MATERIALS WE USE IN OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESSES ARE HIGHLY FLAMMABLE. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, or if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it would reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. - 12 - POSSIBLE PRODUCT RETURNS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers' prior agreed upon specifications. Product returns in excess of established provisions, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPAY GRANTS TO THE INVESTMENT CENTER THAT WE RECEIVED IN CONNECTION WITH FAB 1. We received grants and tax benefits for Fab 1 under the government of Israel Approved Enterprise program. As of December 31, 2001, we completed our investments under our Fab 1 program and are no longer entitled to any further investment grants for future capital investments in Fab 1. We have agreed with the Investment Center that if we do not achieve Fab 1 revenues of $90 million for 2003 and $100 million for 2004 and maintain at Fab 1 at least 600 employees for 2003 and 625 employees for 2004, subject to prevailing market conditions, we will, if demanded by the Investment Center, be required to repay the Investment Center up to approximately $2.5 million. Since our actual level of Fab 1 revenues and employees for 2003 and 2004 were not in compliance with the above mentioned levels, we may be required to repay the Investment Center up to approximately $2.5 million. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. We have made substantial sales to customers located in Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: o we price our products primarily in US dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the US dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our revenue; o the need to comply with foreign government regulation; o general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; o natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business; o reduced sales to our customers in Asia Pacific that may arise from regional issues in Asia; o imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; o adverse tax rules and regulations; o weak protection of our intellectual property rights; and o delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions. - 13 - OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel and we cannot find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. Our ability to retain existing personnel and attract new personnel is in part dependent on the compensation packages we offer. As demand for qualified personnel increases, we may be forced to increase the compensation levels and to adjust the cash, equity and other components of compensation we offer our personnel. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONSUMMATE AND INTEGRATE THE JAZZ TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ACQUISITION. We have entered into an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization to acquire Jazz Technologies, Inc. The merger is subject to a number of conditions, which are beyond our control and that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied and we may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to consummate the acquisition. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may significantly reduce the synergies and other benefits that Tower and Jazz expect to achieve if they successfully complete the merger within the expected time frame and integrate their respective businesses. In addition, the acquisition involves other known and unknown risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: o The acquisition may divert management's attention away from our primary product offerings, resulting in the loss of key customers and/or personnel and exposing us to unanticipated liabilities. o We may fail to successfully integrate the acquisition in accordance with our business strategy. o We may not be able to retain the skilled employees and experienced management that may be necessary to o operate the businesses we are acquiring and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them. o Jazz Technologies, Inc. may have undisclosed contingent liabilities, including, among others, known or unknown intellectual property infringement, environmental liabilities or product liability claims. Before the merger with Jazz technologies, Inc. we, our independent auditors and our legal counsel conducted due o diligence on Jazz Technologies, Inc. customary and appropriate for a merger transaction. However, the due diligence process may not have revealed all material liabilities of Jazz technologies, Inc. currently existing or which may be asserted in the future against us relating to Jazz technologies, Inc. activities before the consummation of the merger. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE IN THE FUTURE. The stock market, in general, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the stock prices for many companies in the semiconductor industry have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. - 14 - In addition, it is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our securities may under perform or fall. ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES PURSUANT TO OUR FAB 2 FINANCING PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS AND THE TERMS OF OUTSTANDING SECURITIES WHICH ARE EXERCISABLE OR CONVERTIBLE INTO SHARES MAY DILUTE THE INTEREST OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS. WE MAY ALSO ISSUE IN THE FUTURE ADDITIONAL SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES WHICH ARE EXERCISABLE OR CONVERTIBLE INTO SHARES. As of May 31, 2008, we had approximately 125.4 million ordinary shares outstanding and have outstanding securities convertible or exercisable into up to approximately 245.6 million ordinary shares including: (i) up to 25.3 million ordinary shares issuable upon the conversion of our 2005 outstanding convertible debentures held by some of our major shareholders and others at a conversion rate of $1.10; (ii) 8.3 million warrants issued to our banks with an exercise price of $1.21; (iii) up to 24.2 million ordinary shares issuable upon the conversion of our 2006 outstanding convertible debentures at a conversion rate of approximately $2.5; (iv) 17.5 million warrants with an exercise price of $2.04; (v) 5.2 million warrants with an exercise price of approximately $2.8; (vi) 32.7 million employee and director options with a weighted average exercise price of $1.72; (vii) 5.5 million warrants with an exercise price of approximately $2.2; and (viii) 7.4 million ordinary shares issuable upon the conversion of our 2007 convertible debentures, at a conversion rate of approximately $5.2. Additionally, in September 2006, we issued equity equivalent capital notes to our banks and to Israel Corp., which are convertible for no additional consideration, into approximately 52 million and 65.8 million of our ordinary shares, respectively. In May 2008 we entered into a definitive agreement with Jazz Technologies, Inc. to acquire its shares in a stock-for-stock transaction in which we expect to issue approximately 34.3 million shares and reserve for future issuance upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding Jazz options, warrants and senior convertibles notes, an additional approximately 96.5 million shares. In January 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which was declared effective in February 2008, registering the possible offer and sale from time to time of up to $40 million of securities. Following the reduction of the interest rate applicable to the quarterly actual interest payments on our outstanding loans to our banks following the closing of the September 2006 amendment to our facility agreement, we have agreed to issue shares or convertible securities to our banks in January 2011, calculated based on the amount of decreased interest payments as set forth in the amendment and our share price in the forth quarter of 2010. We may undertake additional financings in the future and in connection therewith we may issue shares or securities convertible into shares, which may materially dilute the holdings of our current shareholders. - 15 - MARKET SALES OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF OUR SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE, OR EVEN THE PERCEPTION THAT SUCH SALES MAY OCCUR, MAY LOWER THE PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES. Of our approximately 125.4 million outstanding ordinary shares as of May 31, 2008, approximately 86.5 million are held by non-affiliates and are freely tradable under US securities laws. In addition, certain of our affiliates (Israel Corp., SanDisk Corporation and Macronix International) hold approximately 38.9 million of our outstanding shares, of which (i) approximately 3.3 million are registered for resale and are therefore freely tradable under US securities laws, and (ii) approximately 35.6 million are currently eligible for sale subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Rule 144"). As of May 31, 2008, up to approximately 25.3 million additional shares issuable upon the conversion of our 2005 convertible debentures beneficially owned by non-affiliates or are registered for sale and are freely tradable under US securities laws and approximately 5.4 million shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to Israel Corp. and our banks will become eligible for sale commencing six months after exercise of the warrants, subject, in the case of Israel Corp. and, if deemed "affiliates" of our company, the banks, to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144. Approximately 65.8 million shares underlying Israel Corp.'s equity equivalent convertible capital notes are freely tradable subject to volume and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144. In addition, (i) approximately 9.2 million shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants we granted to our banks and (ii) approximately 9.4 million shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued in our March 2007 private placement, are registered for resale and are therefore freely tradable under US securities laws. Additionally, up to: (i) approximately 29.7 million shares issuable upon the conversion and/or exercise of the securities sold in our June 2006 public offering in Israel, (ii) approximately 5.2 million shares issuable upon exercise of warrants sold in private placements completed in November 2006 and (iii) the additional up to approximately 10.1 million ordinary shares which are issuable upon the conversion and/or exercise of warrants sold in our June 2007 private placement and September 2007 public offering in Israel, would be freely tradable in normal trading transactions in the United States. We have filed a registration statement covering the resale of an additional up to approximately 52 million shares issuable upon the conversion of equity equivalent convertible capital notes issued to our banks and if declared effective, such shares would be freely tradable under US securities laws. In January 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement, which was declared effective in February 2008, registering the possible offer and sale from time to time of up to $40 million of securities which we may elect to offer and sell during the three years following February 2008. Furthermore, as part of the definitive merger agreement with Jazz Technologies, Inc., we undertook to file a registration statement in connection with the shares to be issued in the transaction and the shares that may be issued in the future upon the exercise of Jazz options, warrants and senior convertibles notes. The sales of large amounts of our ordinary shares (or the potential for those sales even if they do not actually occur) may depress the market price of our ordinary shares. This could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS COLLECTIVELY OWN A CONTROLLING INTEREST IN US AND WILL BE ABLE TO EXERCISE THEIR VOTING RIGHTS IN WAYS WHICH MAY BE ADVERSE TO THE INTERESTS OF OUR OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. As of May 31, 2008, our major wafer partners and Israel Corp. collectively owned approximately 31% of our outstanding shares. In the event Israel Corp. were to convert its equity convertible capital notes, our major wafer partners and Israel Corp. would collectively own approximately 55% of our outstanding shares. Under our articles of association, two shareholders holding together 33% of our outstanding shares constitute a quorum for conducting a shareholders' meeting. If Israel Corp. were to convert its equity convertible capital notes, our wafer partners and Israel Corp. would constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting a shareholders' meeting. If only two large shareholders, owning collectively at least 33% of our shares, were to participate in one of our shareholders' meetings, these shareholders would determine the outcome of our shareholders' meeting without the benefit of the participation of our other shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may not be consistent with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result, these shareholders may exercise voting rights or otherwise influence corporate action in ways that are adverse to the interests of our other shareholders. - 16 - THE PAYMENT OF THE REDEMPTION AMOUNT ON ACCOUNT OF OUR OUTSTANDING DEBENTURES IS SUBORDINATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO OUR BANKS AND OBLIGATIONS TO SECURED CREDITORS. The payment of the redemption amount on account of our outstanding debentures is subordinated to the prior payment of approximately $399 million in the aggregate payable by us to our banks under our amended credit facility agreement and our September 2007 credit lines with them, to any obligations to the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor related to approximately $165 million in grants received as of May 31, 2008 under the Investment Center's "Approved Enterprise" program in relation to Fab 2, and to a first ranking charge in favor of SanDisk Corporation, on approximately $10 million of equipment purchased in connection with the performance of our obligations under our agreement with SanDisk Corporation. As a result, upon any distribution to our creditors in liquidation or reorganization or similar proceedings, these secured creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to our outstanding debentures. In any of these circumstances, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of our debentures then outstanding. In addition, we are not permitted under the terms of our credit facility agreement to make a payment on account of the debentures if on the date of such payment an "Event of Default" exists under our credit facility agreement. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL INSTABILITY IN ISRAEL MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. All of our manufacturing facilities and our corporate and some of our sales offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not adversely impact our business in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in Israel, which has been experiencing civil unrest, terrorist activity and military action. We could experience serious disruption of our manufacturing if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our manufacturing facilities. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY THE OBLIGATIONS OF OUR PERSONNEL TO PERFORM MILITARY SERVICE. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. A large part of male Israeli citizens, including our employees, are subject to compulsory military reserve service through middle age. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Such disruption could harm our operations. - 17 - OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE AFFECTED BY NEGATIVE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN ISRAEL. Israel has experienced periods of recession in economic activity, resulting in low growth rates and growing unemployment. Our operations could be adversely affected if the economic conditions in Israel deteriorate. In addition, Israel has experienced several general strikes and other work stoppages, affecting banks, government offices, airports and ports. These strikes have had an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on businesses, including our ability to deliver products to our customers or to receive raw materials from our suppliers in a timely manner. From time to time, the Israeli trade unions threaten strikes or work-stoppages, which may, if carried out, have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy and our business. IF THE EXEMPTION ALLOWING US TO OPERATE OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES SEVEN DAYS A WEEK IS NOT RENEWED, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We operate our manufacturing facilities seven days a week pursuant to an exemption from the law that requires businesses in Israel to be closed from sundown on Friday through sundown on Saturday. This exemption expires by its terms on December 31, 2008. If the exemption is not renewed and we are forced to close any or all of the facilities for this period each week, our financial results and business will be harmed. IF WE ARE CONSIDERED TO BE A PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY, EITHER PRESENTLY OR IN THE FUTURE, US HOLDERS WILL BE SUBJECT TO ADVERSE US TAX CONSEQUENCES. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, US or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a US Holder does not make an election to treat us as a "qualified electing fund," or QEF, or a "mark to market" election, "excess distributions" to a US Holder, any gain recognized by a US Holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. In light of the uncertainties described above, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel with respect to our PFIC status and no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our US Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a US Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the US Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. US Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for US Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. - 18 - IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE A US JUDGMENT AGAINST US, OUR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS OR TO ASSERT US SECURITIES LAW CLAIMS IN ISRAEL. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli accountants and attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States, against us or any of these persons, in US or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the US Federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to enforce civil liabilities under US Federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 