Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Affecting Our Business We have a material amount of debt and other liabilities, and there is no assurance that we will be able to fully repay it in a timely manner. We have a material amount of debt and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, Tower had (i) approximately $131 million of outstanding bank loans carrying interest of Libor+2.75% to be repaid in 8 quarterly installments between the third quarter of 2013 and mid-2015, and (ii) approximately $177 million of debentures, to be repaid between December 2012 and December 2016, of which approximately $44 million is presented as short term as of December 31, 2011. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, Jazz had (i) approximately $15 million of outstanding borrowings under its up to $45 million Wells Fargo credit line carrying an interest rate of Libor plus approximately 2.5%,due September 2014, of which approximately $5 million was reflected as short term debt, and (ii) approximately $94 million of debentures due 2015. In addition to the financial debt detailed above, our liabilities are detailed in our balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 which was furnished on Form 6-K on February 24, 2012. Tower has not guaranteed any of Jazz's debt and Jazz has not guaranteed any of Tower's debt. Further, the bank facilities of both Tower and Jazz and certain provisions in the agreement signed for the acquisition of TJP contain certain limitations regarding intercompany transactions and covenants regarding the incurrence of additional indebtedness, hence, each respective company may be unable to serve its own debt and liabilities and may be unable to obtain funding from affiliated parties to serve said debt and liabilities due to the abovementioned limitations. If we do not satisfy our debt and liabilities, we may face significant negative consequences, including: · requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to service our indebtedness rather than investing our cash flows to fund our growth plans, working capital and capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; · Volatility in our non-cash financing expenses due to increases in the fair value of our debt obligations, which may increase our net loss or reduce our net profits; and/or · enforcement by the banks of their liens against Tower and Jazz’s respective assets, as applicable (in the occurrence of event of default). Following recent difficult times in worldwide financial and other markets, there is no assurance that the global economic conditions will not negatively affect our business and financial position. There is no assurance that another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy will not occur. The effects of another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy may include global decreased demand, downward price pressure, excess inventory and unutilized capacity worldwide, which may negatively impact consumer and customer demand for our products and the end products of our customers, as well as commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors, including our lenders and our ability to raise funds in the capital markets. A downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy may adversely affect our plans to continue capacity growth, and our future financial results and position, including our ability to raise funds in the capital markets and to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities, comprised mainly of banks’ loans and debentures. 3 In order to finance our debt and other liabilities and obligations, in addition to cash on hand and expected cash flow generated by our operating activities, we continue to explore measures to obtain funds from additional sources including debt re-financing, sales of new securities, opportunities for the sale and lease-back of a portion of our real estate assets, sale of other assets, intellectual property licensing, as well as debt and/or equity restructuring and additional financing alternatives. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding, if at all, from the financing sources detailed above or other sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms in order to allow us to fully or partially repay our short term and long term debt and other liabilities and obligations in a timely manner and fund our growth plans, working capital needs and capital expenditures. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: · fluctuations in the level of revenues from our operating activities; · fluctuations in the collection of receivables; · timing and size of payables; · the timing and size of capital expenditures; · the repayment schedules of our debt obligations; and · our ability to fulfill our obligations and meet performance milestones under our facility agreement, foundry agreements and investments center programs. If Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement and is unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule or revised terms, or if Tower fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in its amended facility agreement and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower’s business may be adversely affected. Under Tower's amended facility agreement with Bank Hapoalim B.M. and Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., in the event that Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement and is unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule or revised terms, or fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in the amended facility agreement, and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower's banks may require Tower to immediately repay all outstanding loans in the amount of $131 million as of March 31, 2012, plus penalties, and the banks would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under the amended facility agreement, including enforcement of their lien against Tower's assets. There is no assurance that Tower will be able to generate the cash necessary to fund the scheduled payments from increased levels of cash from operations or from additional equity or debt financing or other funding sources. If Tower is not able to generate increased levels of revenue and cash from operations or raise sufficient funds in a timely manner, Tower may be unable to comply with the repayment schedule and may fail to meet covenants and financial ratios under the amended facility agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on Tower. 4 Israeli banking laws may impose restrictions on the total debt that Tower may borrow from its banks. Pursuant to a directive published by the Israel Supervisor of Banks, effective March 31, 2004, Tower may be deemed part of a group of borrowers comprised of the Ofer Brothers Group, the Israel Corporation Ltd. ("Israel Corp.") and other companies which are also included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive, including companies under the control or deemed control of these entities. The directive imposes limitations on amounts that banks may lend to borrowers or groups of borrowers. Should Tower's banks exceed these limitations, their ability to lend additional money to Tower in the future would be limited and they may require Tower to return some or all of its outstanding borrowings (which, under Tower's amended facility agreement with its banks, were approximately $131 million in the aggregate as of March 31, 2012), which may have a material adverse effect on Tower's business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success as a specialty foundry depends on our ability to continue to expand our business, customer base and market presence, including through acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will be successful in finding or successfully executing such acquisitions. Our financial results depend, to a significant degree, upon our ability to increase our presence in the specialty foundry field and firmly entrench ourselves as a leading specialty foundry. In order to do so and thereby improve our financial position and operating cash flow, we need to expand our business and attract new customers who will utilize our expanded capacity. Our success at such expansion is dependent, in part, on finding suitable targets for acquisitions, successfully consummating such acquisitions and integrating them into our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding or successfully executing such acquisitions or that they will achieve the expected results. Furthermore, terms of our existing indebtedness, may prohibit or limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. Our reliance on acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of TJP in June 2011, as a means of growth involves risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: · We may fail to identify acquisitions that would enable us to execute our business strategy. · We compete with specialty foundries who may bid against us to acquire potential targets. This competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. · We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or we may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals from our lender banks, and as a result, or for other reasons, we may fail to consummate certain acquisitions. · Potential acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from our existing business operations, which may have a negative adverse effect on our business. · We may fail to integrate acquisitions successfully in accordance with our business strategy or achieve expected synergies. 5 · We may not be able to retain experienced management and skilled employees from the businesses we acquire and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them. · We may purchase a company with excessive unknown contingent liabilities, including, among others, patent infringement or product liability. · We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. If we do not succeed in attracting new customers and products to Fab 4 thereby achieving the anticipated benefits of the Fab 4 acquisition, it may negatively affect our business and growth plans and may adversely affect the operations of Fab 4. Our recent acquisition of TJP involves known and unknown risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: · The acquisition may expose us to unanticipated liabilities. · We may fail to successfully integrate TJP in accordance with our business strategy. · We may be unsuccessful in attracting new customers to Fab 4 in a timely manner and will therefore have to revise our cost structure to reduce the costs of operations which may result in incurring high one-time costs. · In the event it takes longer than expected to attain new customers that will manufacture at Fab 4, it may adversely affect TJP’s ability to gain satisfactory sources of cash from operations to fund our costs at Fab 4, thereby adversely affecting TJP’s ability to maintain its operations. To date, Fab 4 has served entirely as a fabrication facility for Micron’s products. We are in the process of bringing in various process technologies to Fab 4 to allow for the manufacture of a wide range of products at this facility for a broad range of customers. This requires significant capital expenditures and on site qualification of technologies. In order for TJPto have sufficient funds for said activity, TJP needs to expand its customer base beyond its current sole customer, Micron, and maintain a sufficient level of demand from Micron for its products that enables TJP to cover its expenses until the qualification and mass production of new customers’ products. There is no assurance that TJP will be successful in expanding its customer base in a timely manner in order to obtain sufficient funds to bring in new technologies for new customers. Such funds may also come from outside sources, including local Japanese government grants, however, such funding sources are limited by TJP’s agreements with Micron. In the event that TJP is unable to obtain such funds from its business and operations, the Company’s financial results may be adversely affected. If TJP is unable to comply with certain covenants, it will be subjected to significant penalties, which may adversely affect its operations. Pursuant to its agreements with Micron, TJP is subject to certain affirmative, financial and restrictive covenants, and other protections until June 2013. If TJP is unable to comply with such covenants or limitations, Micron will have various potential remedies depending on the level of breach, including: · The ability to buy back the TJP shares and/or TJP assets (purchase will be at the fair market value of TJP’s assets and liabilities at time of buy back); 6 · Ability to foreclose on the pledged assets (which comprise real estate and assets of TJP); · Ability to claim liquidated damages in an amount of up to $100 million. In the event that TJP breaches covenants that entitle Micron to remedies such as those listed above, our financial results may be adversely affected and it may adversely affect Fab 4 operations. If we do not fully equip Fab 2 located in Israel and complete the equipment installation, and ramp-up of production in Fab 2 to its full capacity, we will not fully utilize the substantial investment made in the construction of Fab 2. Depending on the process technology and product mix, when fully ramped-up, it is estimated that Fab 2 will be able to achieve capacity levels of approximately 45,000 wafers per month. The full ramp-up of Fab 2 has not been completed to date. The timing of the implementation of the ramp-up of Fab 2 is dependent on prevailing and forecasted market conditions, customer demand and our ability to fund such ramp-up. There can be no assurance as to the timing or our ability to achieve Fab 2 capacity levels of approximately 45,000 wafers per month. The ramp-up of Fab 2 is a substantial and complex project. If we cannot fund the further ramp-up of Fab 2 or otherwise successfully complete the ramp-up of Fab 2, we may be unable to meet our customers’ production demands and as a result may lose customers and may not attract new ones. In order to fully ramp-up Fab 2, we will need to continue to develop new process technologies in order to suit our customers’ needs. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, difficulties that are customary in the installation, functionality and operation of equipment during manufacturing. Failures or delays in obtaining and installing the necessary equipment, technology and other resources may delay the completion of the ramp-up of Fab 2, add to its cost and result in the Company not fully utilizing the substantial investment made in the construction of Fab 2, which, given the high operating costs of Fab 2, may negatively affect our future financial results. Failure to comply with the terms of the Israeli Investment Center regulations may result in us not receiving the benefit of the approved plans or being required to make significant payments to the Investment Center. In February 2011, we received an official approval certificate (“ktav ishur”) from the Israeli Investment Center, a governmental agency, for our expansion program according to which we received approximately $33 million as of December 31, 2011. Under our previous approved program approved in December 2000, we received an additional $165 million of grants for capital expenditure investment made during the years 2001 through 2005. Eligibility for the above grants and other tax benefits is subject to various conditions stipulated by the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments - 1959 (“Investments Law”) and the regulations promulgated there under, as well as the criteria set forth in the certificates of approval. In the event we breach the terms of the regulations or the law, we may not be eligible to receive the benefits of the approved plan and may be required to make significant payments to the Investment Center, up to the amounts we received in the past. In order to secure fulfillment of the conditions related to the receipt of investment grants, floating liens were registered in favor of the State of Israel on substantially all of Tower’s assets. These liens secure the Investment Center against a breach by us of the terms of the grant program. Failure to receive the grants will require us to seek alternative sources of funding for our ramp-up which may not be available to us. 7 If we do not receive orders from our customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts, we may have excess capacity. We have committed a portion of our capacity for future orders to some customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts. If these customers do not place orders with us in accordance with their contractual loading and purchase commitments, and if we are unable to fill such unutilized capacity, our financial results may be adversely affected. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness. Although Tower and Jazz are limited by the covenants in their respective loan facilities, and TJP is limited by covenants in its agreements with Micron, Tower, Jazz and/or TJP could find themselves in a position in which they would be required to take on additional indebtedness in order to fund their operations, which would increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness may increase the risks associated with servicing our indebtedness. A global recession and credit crisis may adversely affect our results. Market analysts are currently cautious in regard to the global economic conditions forecasted for 2012 and beyond and there is no assurance that another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy will not occur. The effects of another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy may adversely affect our future financial results and position, including our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities, by negatively impacting consumer and customer demand for our products and the end products of our customers. A disruption in the ability of our customers to access sources of liquidity could lead to the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us. Any such downturn may also have a detrimental effect on our commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors, including our lenders. The insolvency of key suppliers could lead to product delays. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · The cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; · Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; · Shifts by integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and customers between internal and outsourced production; · Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; · The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer or the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; · The occurrence of accounts receivable write-offs, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivable in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers in general; · The rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; 8 · Our ability to satisfy our customers’ demand for quality and timely production; · The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; · Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; · Price erosion in the industry; · Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fire or explosions; · Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; · Our ability to maintain existing partners and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; · Interest, price index and currency rate fluctuations that were not hedged; · Technological changes and short product life cycles; · Timing for the design and the qualification of new products; · Increase in the fair value of our bank loans, certain of our warrants and debentures; and · Changes in accounting rules affecting our results. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company, including our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. Fluctuations in the market price of our traded securities may significantly affect our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses. Under prevailing accounting standards, we are required, in certain circumstances, to mark our liabilities, or an embedded feature that is part of a liability, to market, e.g. convertible debentures, warrants and options. An increase or a fluctuation in such securities’ market price or in our share price may cause a significant increase or fluctuation in our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, net, which may harm our ability to accurately forecast our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, net, our reported net profit or loss, and our reported earnings or losses per share, and may cause our possible operating profits to result in a net loss, increase our net loss or reduce our net profits. This non-cash appreciation in our obligations and financing expenses will either eventually be reversed or be converted into equity, or a combination thereof. The lack of a significant backlog resulting from our customers not placing purchase orders far in advance makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods, adjust our production costs and efficiently allocate capital on a timely basis and may therefore have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that, in the future, our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. There is no assurance that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. As a result, it may be difficult to plan our capacity, which requires significant lead time to ramp. If orders received from our customers significantly differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. 9 We occasionally manufacture wafers based on forecasted demand, rather than actual orders from customers. If our forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, we may have obsolete inventory, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We generally do not manufacture wafers unless we receive a customer purchase order. On occasion, we may produce wafers in excess of customer orders based on forecasted customer demand, because we may forecast future excess demand or because of future capacity constraints. If we manufacture more wafers than are actually ordered by customers, we may be left with excess inventory that may ultimately become obsolete and must be scrapped if it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory may have a negative impact on our results of operations. We have a history of operating losses. Our facilities must operate at high utilization rates in order to reduce our losses. We have operated at a loss for the last number of years and may continue to do so in the future. Because fixed costs represent a substantial portion of the operating costs of semiconductor manufacturing operations, we must operate our facilities at high utilization rates in order to reduce our loss. A significant portion of our losses have been due primarily to significant depreciation and amortization expenses related mainly to Fab 2, as well as financing expenses and high level of fixed costs of our other operating expenses. These costs and expenses have not been offset by a sufficient increase in the level of revenues. If we will not operate our facilities consistently at high utilization rates, we may be unable to maintain operating profits, which may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our sales cycles are typically long, and orders received may not meet our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our sales cycles, which we measure from first contact with a customer to first shipment of a product ordered by the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. Demand for our foundry services is dependent upon the demand in our customers’ end markets. A decrease in demand for, or selling prices of, products that contain semiconductors may decrease the demand for our services and reduce our margins. Our customers generally use the semiconductors produced in our fabs in a wide variety of applications. We derive a significant percentage of our operating revenues from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs and other computers. Any significant decrease in the demand for communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs or other computers may decrease the demand for our services. In addition, if the average selling prices of communication devices, consumer electronics, PCs or other computers decline significantly, we will be pressured to further reduce our selling prices, which may reduce our revenues and, therefore, may reduce our margins significantly. As demonstrated by downturns in demand for high technology products in the past, market conditions can change rapidly, without apparent warning or advance notice. In such instances, our customers will experience inventory buildup and/or difficulties in selling their products and, in turn, will reduce or cancel orders for wafers from us. The timing, severity and recovery of these downturns cannot be predicted accurately or at all. When they occur, our business and profitability may suffer. 10 In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products utilizing these services must develop and expand. For example, the success of our imaging process technologies will depend, in part, on the growth of markets for certain image sensor product applications. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenue. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and any resulting periodic overcapacity may lead to erosion of sale prices and make our business and operating results particularly vulnerable to economic downturns, and overcapacity in the semiconductor industry may reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Traditionally, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand in order to have the capacity needed to meet expected demand in the future. If actual demand does not increase or declines, or if companies in the industry expand too aggressively in light of the actual increase in demand, the industry will generally experience a period in which industry-wide capacity exceeds demand, as was the case in the first quarter of 2009. This could result in overcapacity and excess inventories, leading to rapid erosion of average sale prices. The prices that we can charge our customers for our services are significantly related to the overall worldwide supply of integrated circuits and semiconductor products. The overall supply of semiconductor products is based in part on the capacity of other companies, which is outside of our control. In periods of overcapacity, if we are unable to offset the adverse effects of overcapacity through, among other things, our technology and specialty products, we may have to lower the prices we charge our customers for our services and/or we may have to operate at significantly less than full capacity. Such actions could reduce our margin and weaken our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot give an assurance that an increase in the demand for foundry services in the future will not lead to overcapacity in the near future, which could materially adversely affect our revenues, earnings and margins. We expect these patterns to repeat in the future. The overcapacity and downward price pressure characteristic of a prolonged downturn in the semiconductor market, such as we experienced several times in the past, may not allow us to operate at a profit, and may seriously harm our financial results and business if we cannot take appropriate or effective actions in a timely manner, such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand for our services. If we do not maintain our current customers and attract additional customers, our business may be adversely affected. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in the sales volume or sales prices to, our significant customers, or our failure to replace former customers with other customers, may seriously harm our financial results, revenue and business. Since the sales cycle for our services typically exceeds one year, if our customers order significantly fewer wafers than forecasted, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to fill within a short period of time, resulting in lower utilization of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices to try to sell more wafers in order to utilize the excess capacity. In addition to the revenue loss that may result from unused capacity or lower sales prices, we may have difficulty adjusting our costs to reflect the lower revenue in a timely manner, which could harm our financial results. 11 We are substantially dependent upon our relationships with certain customers, and the termination or non-renewal of our agreements or other arrangements with these customers may materially and negatively impact our financial position and financial results. We have relationships with several customers that represent a material portion of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had four customers who contributed between 5% to 32% of our revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had five customers who contributed between 5% to 16% of our revenues. In 2009, we had three customers who contributed between 7% to 17% of our revenues. The loss of any one of these customers, whether due to insolvency, their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under their respective relationships with us, or if we are not able to renew on commercially reasonable terms any of their respective arrangements with us, may materially and negatively impact our overall business and our consolidated financial position and financial results. In particular, Micron, currently our largest customer, is currently the sole customer of TJP and its minimum purchase obligations steadily decrease according to the supply agreement until they expire in mid-2014. There is no assurance that Micron will enter into a new contract committing it to future purchases beyond mid 2014 and there is no assurance that TJP will be able to attract a sufficient number of new customers to utilize its Fab 4. If TJP is unable to attract new customers to cover its costs, this may materially impact our financial position and may negatively impact our plans for future growth, as well as adversely affect Fab 4’s operations. If we do not maintain and develop our technology processes and services, we may lose customers and may be unable to attract new ones. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: · rapid technological developments; · evolving industry standards; · changes in customer and product end user requirements; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. Our ability to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers is dependent in part on our ability to continuously develop and introduce to production advanced specialized manufacturing process technologies and to purchase the appropriate equipment. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce these processes to production in a timely manner or at all, if our competitors are able to successfully develop and introduce these processes to production before us, or if we are unable to purchase the appropriate equipment required for such processes, we may be unable to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers. 12 The semiconductor foundry business is highly competitive; our competitors may have competitive advantages over us and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete in the industry. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over 20 integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close proximity to other companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, or ICs. As our competitors continue to increase their manufacturing capacity, there will be an increase in specialty semiconductor capacity during the next several years. As specialty capacity increases, there may be more competition and pricing pressure on our services, potentially resulting in underutilization of our capacity. Any significant increase in competition or pricing pressure may erode our profit margins, weaken our earnings or increase our losses. In addition, some semiconductor companies have advanced their CMOS designs to 65 nanometer or smaller geometries. These smaller geometries may provide the customer with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by our specialty process technologies. They may also be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Our specialty processes will therefore compete with these processes and some of our potential and existing customers could elect to design these advanced CMOS processes into their next generation products. We are not currently capable, and do not currently plan to become capable, of providing CMOS processes at these smaller geometries. If our potential or existing customers choose to design their products using these advanced CMOS processes, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: · greater manufacturing capacity; · multiple and more advanced manufacturing facilities; · more advanced technological capabilities; · a more diverse and established customer base; · greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; · a better cost structure; and/or · better operational performance in cycle time and yields. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, IDMs continue to design and manufacture ICs in their own fabrication facilities. There is a possibility that in certain periods or under certain circumstances such as low demand, they will choose to manufacture their products in their facilities instead of manufacturing products at external foundries. If our customers will choose to manufacture internally rather than manufacture at our facilities, our business may be negatively impacted. 13 If we experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems, our business may be seriously harmed. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture a wafer and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We may experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Although we have been enhancing our manufacturing capabilities and efficiency, from time to time we have experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems, as is common in the semiconductor industry. In the past we have encountered the following problems: ● difficulties in upgrading or expanding existing facilities; ● unexpected breakdowns in our manufacturing equipment and/or related facility systems; ● changing or upgrading our process technologies; ● raw materials shortages and impurities; and ● delays in delivery and shortages of spare parts and in maintenance of our equipment. Should these problems repeat, we may suffer delays in delivery and/or loss of reputation, business and revenues. Any of these problems may seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. If we are unable to purchase equipment and raw materials, we may not be able to manufacture our products in a timely fashion, which may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers. To increase the production capability of our facilities and to maintain the quality of production in our facilities, we must procure additional equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In several instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry demand. Any such shortages may result in production delays that may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our exposure to inflation, currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations may increase our cost of operations and we may not have adequately hedged against them. Of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, 32% was in Japanese Yen (JPY) and almost all the rest of our revenues were in U.S. dollars (USD). Our financing and investing activities and our expenses and costs are denominated in USD, New Israeli Shekels (NIS), JPY and Euros. We are, therefore, exposed to the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations. The USD amount of our operations, which is denominated in NIS and JPY, is influenced by changes in the rate of inflation in Israel and the extent to which such changes are not offset by changes in valuation of the NIS in relation to the USD and by the changes in the exchange rate of the USD in relation to the JPY. Such dollar amount of operations will also increase if the USD devalues against the NIS. Outstanding principal and interest on some of Tower’s debentures is linked to the Israeli consumer price index (CPI) and therefore, Tower’s dollar costs will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. 14 Tower and Jazz’s credit facility agreements provide for interest based on a floating LIBOR rate, thereby exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. Tower regularly engages in various hedging strategies to reduce its exposure to some, but not all, of these risks and intends to continue to do so in the future. However, despite any such hedging activity, Tower is likely to remain exposed to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations and inflation, which may increase the cost of its operating and financing activities. We depend on intellectual property rights of third parties and failure to maintain or acquire licenses may harm our business. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide certain foundry and design support services to our customers. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, the design and production of our customers’ products could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our third party intellectual property vendors goes out of business, liquidates, merges with, or is acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor’s previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements may impact our margins and operating results. Failure to comply with the intellectual property rights of third parties or to defend our intellectual property rights may harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defending our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. We have been subject to other intellectual property claims from time to time, which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: · negotiating cross-license agreements; · seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; · litigating the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or · seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. 15 Any one or several of these alternatives may place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which may result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses or if litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it may prevent us from manufacturing particular products or using particular technologies, which may reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. As of March 31, 2012, we held 185 patents in force in the United States and 28 patents in force in foreign countries. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business and results of operations. We could be seriously harmed by failure to comply with environmental regulations. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Israel, the U.S. and in Japan, relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in Tower’s production processes in Israel, in Jazz’s production processes in California and in TJP’s facility in Japan. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we may be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials, such as silane and hydrogen, in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fire. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Although we maintain insurance policies in line with industry standards to reduce potential losses that may be caused by fire, including business interruption insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses due to a fire. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, or if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it may reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, may result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in our fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. Possible product returns could harm our business. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers’ prior agreed upon specifications. Although product returns have historically been less than 1% of revenues, future product returns in excess of established provisions, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 16 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have generated revenue from customers located in India, Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: · we price our products primarily in US dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the US dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which may result in a decrease in our revenue; · the burdens and costs of compliance with foreign government regulation, as well as compliance with a variety of foreign laws; · general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, international terrorism, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business; · imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other trade barriers and restrictions including the timing and availability of export licenses and permits; · adverse tax rules and regulations; · weak protection of our intellectual property rights; · delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, Israel, the United States, Japan and other foreign countries may implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. The geographical distance and separation between Israel, the United States, Japan and the rest of Asia and Europe also creates a number of logistical and communication challenges. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any serious harm in connection with our international operations. Our business may suffer if we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business may suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel because we may not be able to find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. Our ability to retain existing personnel and attract new personnel is in part dependent on the compensation packages we offer. As demand for qualified personnel increases, we may be forced to increase the compensation levels and to adjust the cash, equity and other components of compensation we offer our personnel. 17 Our business plan is premised on the increasing use of outsourced foundry services by both fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers for the production of semiconductors using specialty process technologies. Our business may not be successful if this trend does not continue to develop in the manner we expect. We operate as an independent semiconductor foundry focused primarily on specialty process technologies. Our business model assumes that demand for these processes within the semiconductor industry will grow and will follow the broader trend towards outsourcing foundry operations. Although the use of foundries is established and growing for standard CMOS processes with smaller and smaller geometries, the use of outsourced foundry services for specialty process technologies is less common and may never develop into a significant part of the semiconductor industry. If fabless companies and vertically integrated device manufacturers opt not to, or determine that they cannot, reduce their costs or allocate resources and capital more efficiently by accessing independent specialty foundry capacity, the manufacture of specialty process technologies may not follow the trend of standard CMOS processes. If the broader trend to outsourced foundry services does not prove applicable to the specialty process technologies that we are focused on, our business, results of operations and cash flow may be harmed. If we are unable to collaborate successfully with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies to meet our customers’ design needs, our business may be harmed. We have established relationships with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies. We work together with these vendors to develop complete design kits that our customers can use to meet their design needs using our process technologies. Our ability to meet our customers’ design needs successfully depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies provided by electronic design automation vendors and design service providers, and on whether we, together with these providers, are able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs, and thereby may harm our business. Failure to comply with existing or future governmental regulations may reduce our sales or increase our manufacturing costs. The semiconductors we produce and the export of technologies used in our manufacturing processes may be subject to U.S., Israeli and/or Japanese export control and other regulations as well as various standards established by authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with existing or evolving U.S., Israeli, Japanese or foreign governmental regulation or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates may materially harm our business by reducing our sales, requiring modifications to our processes so that they would not require an export license or by requiring excessive modifications to our customers’ products. Neither we nor our customers may export products using or incorporating controlled technology without obtaining an export license. Governmental restrictions may make foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their processes and their customers’ products more competitive in the global market than the Company or its customers. The U.S., Israeli and/or Japanese governments may not approve any pending or future export license requests. In addition, the list of products and countries for which export approval is required, and the regulatory policies with respect thereto, may be revised from time to time. In the event that Jazz engages in a Special Security Agreement with the United States Department of Defense, it may limit the synergies and other expected benefits of the merger with Jazz. In connection with Jazz’s aerospace and defense business, its facility security clearance and trusted foundry status, we are working with the Defense Security Service of the United States Department of Defense ("DSS") to develop an appropriate structure to mitigate any concern of foreign ownership, control or influence over the operations of Jazz specifically relating to protection of classified information and the prevention of potential unauthorized access thereto. In order to safeguard classified information, it is expected that the DSS will require the adoption of a Special Security Agreement ("SSA"). The SSA may include certain security related restrictions, including restrictions on the composition of the board of directors, the separation of certain employees and operations, as well as restrictions on disclosure of classified information to Tower. The provisions contained in the SSA may also limit the synergies and other benefits realized from the merger with Jazz. There is no assurance when, if at all, an SSA will be reached. 18 If the integrated circuits we manufacture are integrated into defective products, we may be subject to product liability or other claims which may damage our reputation and harm our business. Our customers integrate our custom integrated circuits into their products which they then sell to end users. If these products are defective or malfunction, we may be subject to product liability claims, as well as possible recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices relating to the product. We cannot assure you that our insurance policies will be adequate to satisfy claims that may be made against us. We may also be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and on our ability to attract and retain customers. A significant portion of Fab 3’s workforce is unionized, and its operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions which may disrupt its production and adversely affect the yield of its fab. A significant portion of Fab 3’s employees at its Newport Beach, California fab are represented by a union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2012. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on Jazz’s business. We cannot assure you that Jazz will not experience a material work stoppage, strike or other collective action in the future, which may disrupt its production and adversely affect its customer relations and operational results. The production yields and business of Fab 3 and Fab 4 could be significantly harmed by natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Fab 3 is located in southern California, a region known for seismic activity. Fab 4 is located in Japan, in a region that was not affected by the 2011 earthquake but is generally susceptible to seismic activity. Due to the complex and delicate nature of our manufacturing processes, the facilities are particularly sensitive to the effects of vibrations associated with even minor earthquakes. Fab 3 and Fab 4’s respective business operations depend on their ability to maintain and protect their facilities, computer systems and personnel. We cannot be certain that precautions Fab 3 and Fab 4 have taken to seismically upgrade their fab will be adequate to protect their facilities in the event of a major earthquake, and any resulting damage may seriously disrupt Fab 3 and Fab 4’s production and result in reduced revenues. During March 2011, an earthquake off the eastern coast of Japan triggered a devastating tsunami tidal wave causing vast damage, although far from the Fab 4 site leaving Fab 4 unaffected. The effects of this tsunami continue to weigh on the economy of Japan and it is difficult to predict the continued long-term impact of this disaster. In addition, we have no insurance coverage which may compensate us for losses that may incurred as a result of earthquakes, and any such losses or damages incurred by us may have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Climate change may negatively affect our business. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring and may have dramatic effects on human activity without aggressive remediation steps. Public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. Scientific examination of, political attention to and rules and regulations on issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change may result in increased production costs due to increase in the prices of energy and introduction of energy or carbon tax. A variety of regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Enterprises may need to purchase new equipment at higher costs or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted may adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental regulations, such those on the use of per fluorinated compounds, may increase our production costs, which may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, more frequent droughts and floods, extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels may occur due to climate change. For example, transportation suspension caused by extreme weather conditions may harm the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of disasters or climate change. Compliance with the US Conflict Minerals Law may affect our ability or the ability of our suppliers to purchase raw materials at an effective cost. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, which include: Sudan; Uganda; Rwanda; Burundi; United Republic of Tanzania; Zambia; Angola; Congo; and Central African Republic. These minerals are commonly referred to as conflict minerals. Conflict minerals which may be used in our industry or by our suppliers include Columbite-tantalite (derivative of tantalum [Ta]), Cassiterite (derivative of tin [Sn]), gold [Au], Wolframite (derivative of tungsten [W]), and Cobalt [Co]. Under present regulations, we and our customers are required to survey and disclose whether our processes or products use or rely on conflict minerals. The SEC has proposed draft regulations that would require companies to disclose the use of conflict materials. Although we expect that we and our vendors will be able to comply with the requirements, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to gather all the information required from our vendors. In addition, there is increasing public sentiment that companies should avoid using conflict materials from the DRC and adjoining countries. Although we believe our suppliers do not rely on such conflict materials, there can be no guarantee that we will continue to be able to obtain adequate supplies of materials needed in our production from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries. A failure to obtain necessary information or to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. Risks relating to construction activities adjacent to Fab3. In December 2010, the properties which Jazz leases for its fabrication facilities and headquarters were sold to real estate investment firm based in Irvine, California. In connection with the sale, Jazz negotiated amendments to its operating leases that confirm its ability to remain in the fabrication facilities through 2017 and to exercise options to extend that lease through 2027. The new owner has expressed its intention to begin development of a portion of the property adjacent to Fab 3, with the first phase of development of mixed use townhouses, midrise and hi-rise condominium potentially beginning in 2014 or thereafter. In the amendments to its leases, Jazz secured various contractual safeguards designed to limit and mitigate any adverse impact of construction activities on its fabrication operations. Although Jazz does not anticipate a material adverse impact to its operations, it is possible that construction activities adjacent to its fabrication facility may result in temporary reductions or interruptions in the supply of utilities to the property and that a portion or all of the fabrication facility may need to be idled temporarily during development. If construction activities limit or interrupt the supply of water, gas or electricity to Fab 3 or cause significant vibrations or other disruptions, it may limit or delay Fab 3’s production, which may adversely affect its business and operating results. In addition, an unplanned power outage caused by construction activities, even of very limited duration, may result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in our fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. 20 Risks Related to Our Securities The repayment of Tower's outstanding debentures is subordinated to Tower's indebtedness to its banks and obligations to secured creditors and Jazz’s repayment of its notes is subordinated to Jazz's secured indebtedness to its banks. The repayment of Tower's outstanding debentures is subordinated to (i) the timely repayment of Tower’s $131 million bank loans under Tower’s amended facility agreement, (ii) any obligations to the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor under the Investment Center’s “Approved Enterprise” programs in relation to Fab 2. Tower has not guaranteed any of Jazz's debt, including Jazz's debt under its bank loan and Jazz's debt to its notes holders. In addition repayment of Jazz's notes is subordinated to the prior payment of approximately $15.3 million payable in regard to Jazz's secured bank loans as of December 31, 2011. As a result, upon any distribution to Tower or Jazz’s creditors, as applicable, in liquidation or reorganization or similar proceedings, these secured creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to Tower or Jazz’s outstanding debentures or note holders, as applicable. In any of these circumstances, Tower, or Jazz, as applicable, may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of their respective debentures or notes then outstanding. In addition, neither Tower nor Jazz, as applicable, is permitted under the terms of their respective facility agreements to make a payment on account of their respective debentures or notes, as applicable, if on the date of such payment an “Event of Default” exists under the applicable facility agreement. Tower’s stock price may be volatile in the future. The stock market, in general, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the stock prices for many companies in the semiconductor industry have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares, regardless of Tower’s actual operating performance. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods Tower’s operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of Tower’s securities may underperform or fall. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s ordinary shares eligible for future sale, or even the perception that such sales may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares and may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of Tower securities. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s ordinary shares eligible for future sale, or even the perception that such sales may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares. Of Tower’s approximately 318 million outstanding ordinary shares as of December 31, 2011, only approximately 34 million are held by affiliates. The balance is held by non-affiliates of Tower. In addition, as described below, a substantial number of Tower ordinary shares are issuable under capital notes, options, warrants and convertible notes, a majority of which are or may be registered upon demand of the holders or may be sold subject to the volume and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144. A conversion or exercise of a material portion of such convertible securities, or even the perception that such a conversion or exercise may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares and may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of Tower securities. 21 Issuance of ordinary shares may dilute the percentage of current and future shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 318 million ordinary shares outstanding. We may issue additional ordinary shares that may result in dilution of the percentage of our ordinary shares held by current and future shareholders. As detailed in Item 7, Major Shareholders and in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in the annual report, we are obligated to issue a significant amount of shares or convertible securities to our banks, employees, CEO, directors, bond holders, warrant holders and Israel Corp, under our issued warrants, capital notes, options and convertible debentures. In addition, we may execute on additional financings in the future, which may involve the issuance of additional ordinary shares or securities that are convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of ordinary shares, which may materially dilute the holdings of our shareholders. If our ordinary shares do not trade on NASDAQ as or above $1.00 for ten consecutive days by September 2012, NASDAQ may delist our ordinary shares. While we will continue to be traded in Tel Aviv stock exchange, a delisting from NASDAQ may have a negative impact on the trade of our shares in the U.S and limit our ability to find available financing sources and limit the market exposure to our business. On September 19, 2011, NASDAQ Listing Qualifications sent a letter to us indicating that we do not meet the requirement of maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our listed securities as set forth in Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). We originally had until March 19, 2012 to regain compliance. We did not regain compliance by that date and we availed ourselves of an additional 180 days extension by transfer of our NASDAQ listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market. As a result of the transfer, we can regain compliance with this requirement if at any time during the 180-day period ending on September 17, 2012. There is no assurance that the closing bid price for our ordinary shares will be at least at $1.00 for ten consecutive business days prior to September 17, 2012, which means that we may be in a position in which we may need to choose between: (i) delisting from the NASDAQ or (ii) taking other actions to avoid the delisting of our ordinary shares, such as implementing a reverse stock split. Even though we will continue to be traded on the Tel Aviv stock exchange in the event that we are delisted from NASDAQ, such a delisting from NASDAQ may have a negative impact on the trade of our shares in the U.S and limit our ability to find available financing sources and limit the market exposure to our business. Any inability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control attestation may negatively impact the report on our financial statements to be provided by our independent auditors. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404(a) of the United States Sarbanes−Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report assessing the Company’s effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation thereof by its auditors in its annual report on Form 20−F. Our management and/or our auditors may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Such a conclusion could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our shares and our ability to access the capital markets. 22 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Instability in Israel may harm our business. Tower’s Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities and certain of its corporate and sales offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not adversely impact our business in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in Israel. We could experience serious disruption of our manufacturing in Israel if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our manufacturing facilities. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may be incurred, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our Israeli personnel to perform military service. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, Israeli individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of Israeli military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. While we have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future. Many male Israeli citizens, including most of Tower's male employees under the age of 40, are subject to compulsory military reserve service and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations in Israel could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Such disruption could harm our operations. If the exemption allowing us to operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week is not renewed, our business will be adversely affected. We operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week pursuant to an exemption from the law that requires businesses in Israel to be closed from sundown on Friday through sundown on Saturday. This exemption expires by its terms on December 31, 2012. If the exemption is not renewed and we are forced to close any or all of the Israeli facilities for this period each week, our financial results and business will be harmed. It may be difficult to enforce a US judgment against us, our officers, directors and advisors or to assert US securities law claims in Israel. Tower is incorporated in Israel. Most of Tower’s executive officers and directors and our Israeli accountants and attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of Tower’s assets (excluding its U.S. subsidiaries and their assets) and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States, against Tower or any of these persons, in US or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws, except to the extent that such judgment could be enforced in the U.S. against Tower’s U.S. subsidiaries. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to enforce civil liabilities under US federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 23 