Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Affecting Our Business We have a material amount of debt which may have significant negative consequences, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding sources in a timely manner to allow us to fully or partially repay our debt obligations and other liabilities. We have a material amount of debt and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, Tower had (i) approximately $161 million of outstanding bank debt under our amended facility agreement, of which approximately $18 million was presented as short term and (ii) approximately $231 million of debt in respect of outstanding convertible and non-convertible debentures, to be repaid between 2011 to 2016, of which approximately $51 million was presented as short term. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, Jazz had (i) approximately $22 million of outstanding bank debt under its bank loan agreement, of which approximately $12 million was presented as short term debt, and (ii) approximately $137 million of debt from outstanding notes to be repaid in 2011 and in 2015, of which approximately $41 million was presented as short term. Tower has not guaranteed any of Jazz's debt, including Jazz's debt under its bank loan and Jazz's debt to its note holders and Jazz has not guaranteed any of Tower's debt, including Tower's debt under its bank loan and debentures debt. Our debt and liabilities could have significant negative consequences, including: · requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to service our indebtedness rather than investing our cash flows to fund our growth plans, working capital and capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; - 2 - · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; · increasing our non-cash financing expenses due to increase in the fair value of our debt obligations, which may cause our potential gross and operating profits to result in a net loss or may increase our net loss or reduce our net profits (such non-cash appreciation in our obligations and non-cash financing expenses will either eventually be reversed or be converted into equity, or a combination thereto); and/or · enforcement by the banks of their liens against Tower and Jazz’s respective assets, as applicable (in the event of default). In order to finance our debt and other liabilities and obligations, in addition to cash on hand and expected cash flow from our ongoing operations, we continue to explore measures to obtain funds from additional sources including debt re-financing, sales of new securities, opportunities for the sale and lease-back of a portion of Tower’s real estate assets, liquidation of Jazz’s holdings in HHNEC, sale of other assets, intellectual property licensing, submitting reports with the Israeli Investment Center which are yet to be reviewed and approved in order to receive the recently approved grants under our approval certificate, as well as debt and/or equity restructuring and additional alternatives to reduce our debt. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding from the financing sources detailed above or other sources in a timely manner in order to allow us to fully or partially repay our debt and other liabilities and obligations in a timely manner and fund our growth plans, working capital needs and capital expenditure. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: · fluctuations in the level of revenues from our operating activities; · fluctuations in the collection of receivables; · timing and size of payables; · the timing and size of capital expenditures; · the repayment schedules of our debt obligations; and · our ability to fulfill our obligations and meet performance milestones under our facility agreement, foundry agreements and investments center programs. - 3 - If Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement and is unsuccessful in negotiating revised repayment schedule or revised terms, or if Tower fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in its amended facility agreement and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower business may be adversely affected. Under Tower's amended facility agreement with Bank Hapoalim B.M. and Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., in the event that Tower fails to comply with the repayment schedule or any other terms of its amended facility agreement and is unsuccessful in negotiating a revised repayment schedule or revised terms, or fails to meet any of the covenants and financial ratios stipulated in the amended facility agreement, and Tower's banks do not waive its noncompliance, Tower's banks may require Tower to immediately repay all outstanding loans in the amount of $146 million as of March 31, 2011, plus penalties, and the banks would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under the amended facility agreement, including enforcement of their lien against Tower's assets. There is no assurance that Tower will be able to generate the cash necessary to fund the scheduled payments from increased levels of cash from operations or from additional equity or debt financing or other funding sources. If Tower is not able to generate increased levels of revenue and cash from operations or raise sufficient funds in a timely manner, Tower may be unable to comply with the repayment schedule and may fail to meet covenants and financial ratios under the amended facility agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on Tower. Israeli banking laws may impose restrictions on the total debt that Tower may borrow from its banks. Pursuant to a directive published by the Israel Supervisor of Banks, effective March 31, 2004, Tower may be deemed part of a group of borrowers comprised of the Ofer Brothers Group, the Israel Corporation Ltd. ("Israel Corp.") and other companies which are also included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive, including companies under the control or deemed control of these entities. The directive imposes limitations on amounts that banks may lend to borrowers or groups of borrowers. Should Tower's banks exceed these limitations, their ability to lend additional money to Tower in the future would be limited and they may require Tower to return some or all of its outstanding borrowings (which, under Tower's amended facility agreement with its banks, were approximately $146 million in the aggregate as of March 31, 2011), which may have a material adverse effect on Tower's business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success as a specialty foundry depends on our ability to continue to expand our capacity and market presence, including through acquisitions. Our financial results depend, to a significant degree, upon our ability to increase our presence in the specialty foundry field and firmly entrench ourselves as a leading specialty foundry. In order to do so and thereby improve our financial position and operating cashflow we need to expand our capacity and attract new customers who will utilize such expanded capacity. Our success at such expansion is dependent, in part, on finding applicable and fitting targets for acquisitions, successfully consummating such acquisitions and integrating them into our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in finding or successfully executing such acquisitions or that it will achieve the expected results. - 4 - Our reliance on acquisitions, such as the proposed acquisition of the Japan fab from Micron Technology Inc, as a means of growth involves risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: · We may fail to identify acquisitions that would enable us to execute our business strategy. · We compete with specialty foundries who may bid against us to acquire potential targets. This competition may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates. · We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or we may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals from our lender banks, and as a result, or for other reasons, we may fail to consummate an announced acquisition. · Potential acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from our existing business operations, resulting in the loss of key customers and/or personnel and exposing us to unanticipated liabilities. · We may fail to integrate acquisitions successfully in accordance with our business strategy or achieve expected synergies. · We may not be able to retain experienced management and skilled employees from the businesses we acquire and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them. · We may purchase a company that has excessive known or unknown contingent liabilities, including, among others, patent infringement or product liability claims. If we fail to sign and close the definitive agreements currently being negotiated with Micron Technology for the acquisition of its Japan fab in Nishiwaki, and we do not find alternative capacity and/or acquisition target, it may negatively affect our growth plans and may further cause a loss of current or potential customers whose future business with us is dependent on the added capacity. On April 4, 2011 we announced the signing of a term sheet to acquire a 60,000 wafers per month capacity Fab owned by Micron Technology Inc. in Nishiwaki, Japan. We are currently negotiating and drafting the definitive agreements. There is no assurance when, if at all, this term sheet will materialize into definitive agreements, to be followed by the closing of the acquisition. If we fail to sign and close the definitive agreements currently in negotiations with Micron Technology Inc., for the acquisition of its fab in Nishiwaki, Japan and we will not find alternative capacity and/or acquisition target, it may negatively effect our growth plans and may further cause a loss of current or potential customers whose future business with us in dependent on the added capacity represented by the new fab acquisition. - 5 - If we succeed to sign and close the definitive agreement for acquisition of Micron Technology, but do not succeed in achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, it may negatively affect our business, growth plans and may further cause a loss of current or potential customers whose business is dependent on the added capacity; further, our plans to ramp-up the Nishiwaki Fab will require significant investment for capital expenditures , the funds for which may not be available, thereby having an adverse effect on our operations and business. On April 4, 2011 we announced the signing of a term sheet to acquire Micron Technolgy, Inc.’s 60,000 wafers per month capacity Fab located in Nishiwaki, Japan. We are currently negotiating and drafting the definitive agreements. There is no assurance when, if at all, the term sheet will materialize into definitive agreements, to be followed by the closing of the acquisition. If we do close the acquisition we still may be unable to (i) achieve the full benefits of the anticipated cost reductions or other anticipated synergies, (ii) grow customer demand, or (iii) fund necessary capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate or achieving the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, which may result in adverse negative effect on our operations and business. If we do not fully equip Fab 2 and complete the equipment installation, and ramp-up of production in Fab 2 to its full capacity, we will not fully utilize the substantial investment made in the construction of Fab 2. Depending on the process technology and product mix, when fully ramped-up, it is estimated that Fab 2 will be able to achieve capacity levels of approximately 45,000 wafers per month. The full ramp-up of Fab 2 has not been completed to date. Our determination as to the timing of the implementation of the ramp-up of Fab 2 and the increase in Fab 2’s production levels is dependent on prevailing and forecasted market conditions and our ability to fund these increases. There can be no assurance as to the timing or our ability to achieve Fab 2 capacity levels of approximately 45,000 wafers per month. The ramp-up of Fab 2 is a substantial and complex project. If we cannot fund the further ramp-up of Fab 2 or otherwise successfully complete the ramp-up of Fab 2, we may be unable to meet our customers’ production demands and as a result may lose customers and may not attract new ones. In order to fully ramp-up Fab 2, we will need to continue to develop new process technologies in order to suit our customers’ needs. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, difficulties that are customary in the installation, functionality and operation of equipment during manufacturing. Failures or delays in obtaining and installing the necessary equipment, technology and other resources may delay the completion of the ramp-up of Fab 2, add to its cost and result in the Company not fully utilizing the substantial investment made in the construction of Fab 2, which may adversely affect our future financial results. Failure to comply with the terms of the new grants approved by the Investment Center may result in us not receiving the benefit of the approved grants or being required to return grants we received in the past. In February 2011 we received an official approval certificate (“ktav ishur”) from the Israeli Investment Center, a governmental agency, for our expansion program according to which we may be entitled to receive up to NIS 150 million of cash grants over the years 2011 through 2014, subject to our eligibility for it. Under our previous approved program approved in December 2000 we received $165 million of grants for Cap-Ex investment made during the years 2001 through 2005. Eligibility to the above grants and other tax benefits is subject to various conditions stipulated by the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments - 1959 (“Investments Law”) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as the criteria set forth in the certificates of approval. In the event Tower fails to comply with such conditions, Tower may not be eligible to receive the grants approved and may be required to repay all or a portion of the grants received plus interest and certain adjustments. In order to secure fulfillment of the conditions related to the receipt of investment grants, floating liens were registered in favor of the State of Israel on substantially all of Tower’s assets. Failure to receive the grants will require us to seek alternative sources of funding for our ramp which may not be available to us. - 6 - If we do not receive orders from our customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts, we may have excess capacity. We have committed a portion of our capacity for future orders to some customers with whom we have signed long-term contracts. If these customers do not place orders with us in accordance with their contractual loading and purchase commitments, and if we are unable to fill such unutilized capacity, our financial results may be adversely affected. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness. Although Tower and Jazz are limited by the covenants in their respective loan facilities, Tower and/or Jazz could find themselves in a position in which they would be required to take on additional indebtedness in order to fund their operations, which would increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness would increase the risks associated with servicing our indebtedness. Economic conditions may adversely affect our results. Market analysts are currently cautious in regards to the global economic conditions forecasted for 2011 and beyond and there is no assurance that another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy will not occur. The effects of another downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or in the global economy may adversely affect our future financial results and position, including our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities, comprised mainly of banks’ loans and debentures, as it may negatively impact consumer and customer demand for our products and the end products of our customers, as well as our commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors, including our lenders. Another such downturn may adversely affect our plans to continue our capacity growth and to explore expansion opportunities. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the resulting periodic overcapacity may lead to erosion of sale prices. Downward price pressure may seriously harm our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories, leading to rapid erosion of average sale prices. We expect this pattern to repeat itself in the future. The overcapacity and downward price pressure characteristic of a prolonged downturn in the semiconductor market, such as we experienced several times in the past, may not allow us to operate at a profit, and could seriously harm our financial results and business. - 7 - Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · The cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; · Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; · Shifts by integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and customers between internal and outsourced production; · Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; · The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer or the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; · The occurrence of accounts receivable write-offs, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivable in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers; · The rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; · Our ability to satisfy our customers’ demand for quality and timely production; · The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; · Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; · Price erosion in the industry; · Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fire or explosions; · Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; · Our ability to maintain existing partners and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; · Interest, price index and currency rate fluctuations that were not hedged; · Technological changes and short product life cycles; · Timing for the design and the qualification of new products; · Increase in the fair value of our bank loans, certain of our warrants and debentures; and · Changes in accounting rules affecting our results. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our company, including our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. - 8 - Fluctuations in the market price of our traded securities may significantly affect our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses. Under prevailing accounting standards, we are required, in certain circumstances, to mark our liabilities, or an embedded feature that is part of a liability, to market, e.g. convertible debentures, warrants and options. An increase or a fluctuation in such securities’ market price or in our share price may cause a significant increase or fluctuation in our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, net which may harm our ability to accurately forecast our reported GAAP non-cash financing expenses, net, our reported net profit or loss, and our reported earnings or losses per share, and may cause our possible gross and operating profits to result in a net loss, increase our net loss or reduce our net profits. This non-cash appreciation in our obligations and financing expenses will either eventually be reversed or be converted into equity, or a combination thereof. The lack of a significant backlog resulting from our customers not placing purchase orders far in advance makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that, in the future, our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. There is no assurance that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. If orders received from our customers differ adversely from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. We occasionally manufacture wafers based on forecasted demand, rather than actual orders from customers. If our forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, we may have obsolete inventory, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We generally do not manufacture wafers unless we receive a customer purchase order. On occasion, we may produce wafers in excess of customer orders based on forecasted customer demand, because we may forecast future excess demand or because of future capacity constraints. If we manufacture more wafers than are actually ordered by customers, we may be left with excess inventory that may ultimately become obsolete and must be scrapped if it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory could have a negative impact on our results of operations. - 9 - We have a history of operating losses. Our facilities must operate at high utilization rates in order to reduce our losses. We have operated at a loss for the last number of years and may continue to do so in the future. Because fixed costs represent a substantial portion of the operating costs of semiconductor manufacturing operations, we must operate our facilities at high utilization rates in order to reduce our loss. Tower began construction of Fab 2 in 2001 and Fab 2 operations began in 2003. A significant portion of our losses since 2003 have been due primarily to significant depreciation and amortization expenses related mainly to Fab 2, as well as financing and high level of fixed costs of our other operating expenses. These costs and expenses have not been offset by a sufficient increase in the level of revenues . If we will not operate our facilities consistently at high utilization rates, we may be unable to maintain operating profits, which may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our sales cycles are typically long, and orders received may not meet our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our sales cycles, which we measure from first contact with a customer to first shipment of a product ordered by the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. Demand for our foundry services is dependent on the demand in our customers’ end markets. In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products utilizing these services must develop and expand. For example, the success of our imaging process technologies will depend, in part, on the growth of markets for certain image sensor product applications. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenue. If we do not maintain our current customers and attract additional customers, our business may be adversely affected. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in the sales volume or sales prices to, our significant customers, or our failure to replace them with other customers, could seriously harm our financial results, revenue and business. Since the sales cycle for our services typically exceeds one year, if our customers order significantly fewer wafers than forecasted, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to fill within a short period of time, resulting in lower utilization of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices in order to try to sell more wafers in order to utilize the excess capacity. In addition to the revenue loss that could result from unused capacity or lower sales prices, we may have difficulty adjusting our costs to reflect the lower revenue in a timely manner, which could harm our financial results. - 10 - If we do not maintain and develop our technology processes and services, we will lose customers and may be unable to attract new ones. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: · rapid technological developments; · evolving industry standards; · changes in customer and product end user requirements; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. Our ability to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers is dependent in part on our ability to continuously develop and introduce to production advanced specialized manufacturing process technologies and purchase the appropriate equipment. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce these processes to production in a timely manner or at all or if we are unable to purchase the appropriate equipment required for such processes, we may be unable to maintain our current customer base and may be unable to attract new customers. The semiconductor foundry business is highly competitive; our competitors may have competitive advantages over us. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over 20 integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close proximity to other companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, or ICs. As our competitors continue to increase their manufacturing capacity, there could be an increase in specialty semiconductor capacity during the next several years. As specialty capacity increases, there may be more competition and pricing pressure on our services, and underutilization of our capacity may result. Any significant increase in competition or pricing pressure may erode our profit margins, weaken our earnings or increase our losses. In addition, some semiconductor companies have advanced their CMOS designs to 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer or smaller geometries. These smaller geometries may provide the customer with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by our specialty process technologies, and may be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Our specialty processes will therefore compete with these processes for customers and some of our potential and existing customers could elect to design these advanced CMOS processes into their next generation products. We are not currently capable, and do not currently plan to become capable, of providing CMOS processes at these smaller geometries. If our potential or existing customers choose to design their products using these advanced CMOS processes, our business may suffer. - 11 - In addition, many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: · greater manufacturing capacity; · multiple and more advanced manufacturing facilities; · more advanced technological capabilities; · a more diverse and established customer base; · greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; · a better cost structure; and/or · better operational performance in cycle time and yields. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems, our business could be seriously harmed. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture a wafer and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We may experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Any of these problems could seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. If we are unable to purchase equipment and raw materials, we may not be able to manufacture our products in a timely fashion, which may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers. To increase the production capability of our facilities and to maintain the quality of production in our facilities, we must procure additional equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In many instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry demand. Any such shortages could result in production delays that could result in a loss of existing and potential new customers which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. - 12 - Our exposure to inflation, currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations may increase our cost of operations. Almost all of our cash generated from operations and our financing and investing activities is denominated in US dollars and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Our expenses and costs are denominated in NIS, US dollars, Japanese Yen and Euros. We are, therefore, exposed to the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations. The dollar amount of Tower’s operations, which is denominated in NIS, is influenced by changes in the rate of inflation in Israel and the extent to which such changes are not offset by changes in valuation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar. Such dollar amount of operations will also increase if the US dollar devalues against the NIS. Outstanding principal and interest on some of Tower’s debentures is linked to the Israeli consumer price index (CPI) and therefore, Tower’s dollar costs will increase if inflation in Israel exceeds the devaluation of the NIS against the US dollar. Tower and Jazz’s borrowings under their respective credit facilities provide for interest based on a floating LIBOR rate, thereby exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. Furthermore, if Tower and/or Jazz's banks incur increased costs in financing the applicable credit facility due to changes in law or the unavailability of foreign currency, they may exercise their right to increase the interest rate on the credit facility or require Tower and/or Jazz to bear such increased cost as provided for in the respective credit facility agreement. Tower regularly engages in various hedging strategies to reduce its exposure to some, but not all, of these risks and intends to continue to do so in the future. However, despite any such hedging activity, Tower is likely to remain exposed to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations and inflation, which may increase the cost of its operating and financing activities. We depend on intellectual property rights of third parties and failure to maintain or acquire licenses could harm our business. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide certain foundry and design services to our clients. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, the design and production of our customers’ products could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our third party intellectual property vendors goes out of business, liquidates, merges with, or is acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor’s previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements may impact our margins and operating results. Failure to comply with the intellectual property rights of third parties or to defend our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defending our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights. We have been subject to other intellectual property claims from time to time, which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. - 13 - Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be a party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: · negotiating cross-license agreements; · seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; · litigating the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or · seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one or several of these alternatives could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses or if litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing particular products or using particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. As of March 31, 2011, we held 197 patents in force in the United States and 33 patents in force in foreign countries. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you that other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business and results of operations. We could be seriously harmed by failure to comply with environmental regulations. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and governmental regulations in Israel and in the U.S. relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in Tower’s production processes in Israel and in Jazz’s production processes in California. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. - 14 - We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fire. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce potential losses that may be caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, or if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it may reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in our fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. Possible product returns could harm our business. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers’ prior agreed upon specifications. Product returns in excess of established provisions, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have generated substantial revenue from customers located in Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: · we price our products primarily in US dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the US dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our revenue; · the burdens and costs of compliance with foreign government regulation, as well as compliance with a variety of foreign laws; · general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, international terrorism, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business; · imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other trade barriers and restrictions including the timing and availability of export licenses and permits; · adverse tax rules and regulations; · weak protection of our intellectual property rights; · delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions; - 15 - · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, Israel, the United States and other foreign countries may implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. The geographical distance between Israel, the United States, Asia and Europe also creates a number of logistical and communication challenges. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any serious harm in connection with our international operations. Our business could suffer if we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel because we may not be able to find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. Our ability to retain existing personnel and attract new personnel is in part dependent on the compensation packages we offer. As demand for qualified personnel increases, we may be forced to increase the compensation levels and to adjust the cash, equity and other components of compensation we offer our personnel. Our business plan is premised on the increasing use of outsourced foundry services by both fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers for the production of semiconductors using specialty process technologies. Our business may not be successful if this trend does not continue to develop in the manner we expect. We operate as an independent semiconductor foundry focused primarily on specialty process technologies. Our business model assumes that demand for these processes within the semiconductor industry will grow and will follow the broader trend towards outsourcing foundry operations. Although the use of foundries is established and growing for standard CMOS processes, the use of outsourced foundry services for specialty process technologies is less common and may never develop into a significant part of the semiconductor industry. If fabless companies and vertically integrated device manufacturers opt not to, or determine that they cannot, reduce their costs or allocate resources and capital more efficiently by accessing independent specialty foundry capacity, the manufacture of specialty process technologies may not follow the trend of standard CMOS processes. If the broader trend to outsourced foundry services does not prove applicable to the specialty process technologies that we are focused on, our business, results of operations and cash flow may be harmed. If we are unable to collaborate successfully with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies to meet our customers’ design needs, our business could be harmed. We have established relationships with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies. We work together with these vendors to develop complete design kits that our customers can use to meet their design needs using our process technologies. Our ability to meet our customers’ design needs successfully depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies provided by electronic design automation vendors and design service providers, and on whether we, together with these providers, are able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs, and thereby harm our business. - 16 - Failure to comply with existing or future governmental regulations could reduce our sales or increase our manufacturing costs. The semiconductors we produce and the export of technologies used in our manufacturing processes may be subject to U.S. export control and other regulations as well as various standards established by authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with existing or evolving U.S. or foreign governmental regulation or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could materially harm our business by reducing our sales, requiring modifications to our processes that we license to our foreign manufacturing suppliers, or requiring too extensive modifications to our customers’ products. Neither we nor our customers may export products using or incorporating controlled technology without obtaining an export license. In addition, when Jazz faces excess demand, it may be dependent on its manufacturing suppliers in China for a significant portion of its planned manufacturing capacity, and export licenses may be required in order for Jazz to transfer technology related to its manufacturing processes to these suppliers. These restrictions may make foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their processes and their customers’ products more competitive in the global market than Jazz or its customers. The U.S. government may not approve any pending or future export license requests. In addition, the list of products and countries for which export approval is required, and the regulatory policies with respect thereto, could be revised from time to time. We expect to enter into a Special Security Agreement with the United States Department of Defense which may limit the synergies and other expected benefits of the Merger. In connection with Jazz’s aerospace and defense business, its facility security clearance and trusted foundry status, we are working with the Defense Security Service of the United States Department of Defense ("DSS") to develop an appropriate structure to mitigate any concern of foreign ownership, control or influence over the operations of Jazz specifically relating to protection of classified information and prevention of potential unauthorized access thereto. In order to safeguard classified information, it is expected that the DSS will require adoption of a Special Security Agreement ("SSA"). The SSA may include certain security related restrictions, including restrictions on the composition of the board of directors, the separation of certain employees and operations, as well as restrictions on disclosure of classified information to Tower. The provisions contained in the SSA may also limit the synergies and other benefits realized from the Merger. There is no assurance when, if at all, an SSA will be reached. If the integrated circuits we manufacture are integrated into defective products, we may be subject to product liability or other claims which could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our customers integrate our custom integrated circuits into their products which they then sell to end users. If these products are defective or malfunction, we may be subject to product liability claims, as well as possible recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices relating to the product. We cannot assure you that our insurance policies will be adequate to satisfy claims that may be made against us. Also, we may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and on our ability to attract and retain customers. - 17 - A significant portion of Jazz’s workforce is unionized, and its operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions which may disrupt its production and adversely affect the yield of its fab. A significant portion of Jazz’s employees at its Newport Beach, California fab are represented by a union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2012. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on Jazz’s business. We cannot assure you that Jazz will not experience a material work stoppage, strike or other collective action in the future, which may disrupt its production and adversely affect its customer relations and operational results. Jazz’s production yields and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab is located in southern California, a region known for seismic activity. Due to the complex and delicate nature of our manufacturing processes, Jazz’s facilities are particularly sensitive to the effects of vibrations associated with even minor earthquakes. Jazz’s business operations depend on its ability to maintain and protect its facilities, computer systems and personnel. We cannot be certain that precautions Jazz has taken to seismically upgrade its fab will be adequate to protect its facilities in the event of a major earthquake, and any resulting damage could seriously disrupt Jazz’s production and result in reduced revenues. Risks relating to construction activities. In December 2010, the properties which Jazz leases for its fabrication facilities and headquarters, were sold by their owner (Conexant) to Uptown Newport LP (“Uptown”), a joint venture consisting of a fund controlled by New York-based DRA Advisors LLC and an affiliate of the Shopoff Group, a real estate investment firm based in Irvine, California. In connection with the sale, Jazz negotiated amendments to its operating leases that confirm its ability to remain in the fabrication facilities through 2017 and to exercise options to extend that lease through 2027. Uptown has expressed its intention to begin development of a portion of the property adjacent to Jazz’s fabrication facility, with the first phase of development of mixed use townhouses, midrise and hi-rise condominium potentially beginning in 2014 or thereafter. In the amendments to its leases, Jazz secured various contractual safeguards designed to limit and mitigate any adverse impact of construction activities on its fabrication operations. Although Jazz does not anticipate a material adverse impact to its operations, it is possible that construction activities adjacent to its fabrication facility could result in temporary reductions or interruptions in the supply of utilities to the property and that a portion or all of the fabrication facility may need to be idled temporarily during development. If construction activities limit or interrupt the supply of water, gas or electricity to Jazz’s fabrication facility or cause significant vibrations or other disruptions, it could limit or delay Jazz’d production, which could adversely affect its business and operating results. In addition, an unplanned power outage caused by construction activities, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in our fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. - 18 - Risks Related to Our Securities The repayment of Tower's outstanding debentures is subordinated to Tower's indebtedness to its banks and obligations to secured creditors and Jazz’s repayment of its notes is subordinated to Jazz's secured indebtedness to its banks. The repayment of Tower's outstanding debentures is subordinated to (i) the timely repayment of Tower’s bank loans to under Tower’s amended facility agreement, (ii) any obligations to the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor under the Investment Center’s “Approved Enterprise” programs in relation to Fab 2. Tower has not guaranteed any of Jazz's debt, including Jazz's debt under its bank loan and Jazz's debt to its notes holders. In addition repayment of Jazz's notes is subordinated to the prior payment of approximately $22 million payable in regard to Jazz's secured bank loans as of December 31, 2010. As a result, upon any distribution to Tower or Jazz’s creditors, as applicable, in liquidation or reorganization or similar proceedings, these secured creditors will be entitled to be paid in full before any payment may be made with respect to Tower or Jazz’s outstanding debentures or note holders, as applicable. In any of these circumstances, Tower, or Jazz, as applicable, may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of their respective debentures or notes then outstanding. In addition, neither Tower nor Jazz, as applicable, is permitted under the terms of their respective facility agreements to make a payment on account of their respective debentures or notes, as applicable, if on the date of such payment an “Event of Default” exists under the applicable facility agreement. Tower’s stock price may be volatile in the future. The stock market, in general, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the stock prices for many companies in the semiconductor industry have experienced wide fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares, regardless of Tower’s actual operating performance. In addition, it is possible that in some future periods Tower’s operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of Tower’s securities may underperform or fall. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s ordinary shares eligible for future sale, or even the perception that such sales may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares and may impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of Tower securities and limit our ability to find financing sources to fund our debt and other liabilities. Market sales of large amounts of Tower’s ordinary shares eligible for future sale, or even the perception that such sales may occur, may depress the market price of Tower’s ordinary shares. Of Tower’s approximately 286.0 million outstanding ordinary shares as of March 31, 2011, approximately 252.8 million are held by non-affiliates and are freely tradable under US securities laws. The balance is held by affiliates of Tower. Some of these shares are or may be registered for resale and therefore are or could be freely tradable under US securities laws, and the balance would be eligible for sale subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the US Securities Act of 1933. In addition, as described below, a substantial number of Tower ordinary shares are issuable under capital notes, options, warrants and convertible notes. A portion of these shares are or may be registered upon demand of the holders or may be sold subject to the volume and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144, see also “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources”. "Fab 2 Agreements-Tower's Credit Facility". This could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of Tower securities and may require us to obtain financing from alternative sources in order to fulfill our debt and obligations, which financing may not be available. - 19 - Issuance of ordinary shares may dilute the percentage of current and future shareholders. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately 286 million ordinary shares outstanding. We may issue additional ordinary shares that may result in dilution of the percentage of our ordinary shares held by current and future shareholders. As detailed in Item 7. Major Shareholders and in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in the annual report, we are obligated to issue a significant amount of shares or convertible securities to our banks, employees, CEO, directors, bond holders, warrant holders and Israel Corp. In addition, we may execute on additional financings in the future, which may involve the issuance of additional ordinary shares or securities that are convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of ordinary shares, which may materially dilute the holdings of our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Instability in Israel may harm our business. Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities and certain of its corporate and sales offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will not adversely impact our business in the future. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, Fab 1 and Fab 2 manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in Israel. We could experience serious disruption of our manufacturing in Israel if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our manufacturing facilities. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may incurred, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 20 - Our operations may be negatively affected by the obligations of our Israeli personnel to perform military service. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, Israeli individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of Israeli military reservists, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Many male Israeli citizens, including most of Tower's employees, are subject to compulsory military reserve service through middle age. Our operations in Israel could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our key employees or a significant number of our other employees due to military service. Such disruption could harm our operations. If the exemption allowing us to operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week is not renewed, our business will be adversely affected. We operate our Israeli manufacturing facilities seven days a week pursuant to an exemption from the law that requires businesses in Israel to be closed from sundown on Friday through sundown on Saturday. This exemption expires by its terms on December 31, 2011. If the exemption is not renewed and we are forced to close any or all of the Israeli facilities for this period each week, our financial results and business will be harmed. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company, either presently or in the future, US Holders will be subject to adverse US tax consequences. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, US or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a US Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark to market” election, “excess distributions” to a US Holder, any gain recognized by a US Holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In light of the uncertainties described above, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel with respect to our PFIC status and no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our US Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a US Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the US Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. US Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for US Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. - 21 - It may be difficult to enforce a US judgment against us, our officers, directors and advisors or to assert US securities law claims in Israel. Tower is incorporated in Israel. Most of Tower’s executive officers and directors and our Israeli accountants and attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a majority of Tower’s assets (excluding its U.S. subsidiaries and their assets) and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States, against Tower or any of these persons, in US or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws, except to the extent that such judgment could be enforced in the U.S. against Tower’s U.S. subsidiaries. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to enforce civil liabilities under US federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 