Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank, like all financial institutions, is subject to a number of risks as it conducts its business. The Management Committee, consisting of the Bank’s senior officers, serves as the integrated body that oversees the management enterprise risk bank wide. Within each division, processes are in place to ensure risk is measured, monitored and managed within the parameters established by the relevant Bank policies and consistent with stated goals and strategies. The discussion hereafter sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. Cascade cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that it may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On Oct. 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently 26 being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect Cascade’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of Cascade’s securities. Cascade’s issuance of securities to the United States Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to shareholders and is dilutive to the holders of our common stock. In connection with our sale of Series A Preferred to the U.S. Treasury, Cascade also issued to Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 863,442 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with Treasury will result in limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until November 21, 2011 or until Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred, Cascade will not be able to increase dividends above current levels ($0.045 per share of common stock on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our shares without Treasury approval, with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. In addition, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Unless Cascade is able to redeem the Series A Preferred prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.00% (approximately $1.95 million annually) to 9.00% (approximately $3.16 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in dividends on the Series A Preferred could have a negative effect on our liquidity. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or our banking subsidiary’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or our banking subsidiary could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. You may not receive dividends on the common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Further, the terms of the Series A Preferred limit our payment of dividends on common stock, as described above. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses and we increased our provision for loan losses in 2008, which adversely affected our results of operations. If current adverse conditions in the housing and real estate markets and the economy continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a prolonged recession occurs we expect that it could severely impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may elect to make further increases in our provision for loan losses in the future, particularly if economic conditions continue to deteriorate, which also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, and other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial and multifamily and other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may experience future goodwill impairment. Recently, the Company’s common stock has been trading at a price below its book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets. The valuation of goodwill is determined using discounted cash flows of forecasted earnings, estimated sales price based on recent observable market transactions and market capitalization based on current stock price. If impairment was deemed to exist, a write down of the asset would occur with a charge to earnings. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Western Washington market in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 28 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses or if we are required to increase our provision for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Material additions to the allowance or increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk, which is the primary market risk affecting our financial performance. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We currently believe that declining interest rates will adversely affect our results of operations. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Our investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability. Our securities portfolio includes securities which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, and other securities which are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The unrealized gains or losses in our available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect our financial condition, profitability and prospects. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Cascade Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Cascade Bank. The availability of dividends from Cascade Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Cascade Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If Cascade Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we 29 may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Cascade Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Cascade’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates Cascade’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Cascade’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Cascade’s financial condition and results of operations. Cascade May be Required to Pay Significantly Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Premiums in the Future. The Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance premiums due to the Bank’s participation in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and other EESA programs and because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Any increase in insurance premiums will reduce the profitability of Cascade. Cascade Continually Encounters Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Cascade’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Cascade’s operations. Many of Cascade’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Cascade may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on Cascade’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 