Item 1A. Risk Factors The Bank, like all financial institutions, is subject to a number of risks as it conducts its business. The Management Committee, consisting of the Bank’s senior officers, serves as the integrated body that oversees the management enterprise risk bank wide. Within each division, processes are in place to ensure risk is measured, monitored, and managed within the parameters established by the relevant Bank policies and consistent with stated goals and strategies. Credit Risk Credit risk, the possibility that our borrowers will be unwilling or unable to repay their obligations when due, is the most important risk in that credit losses will most likely have the most profound impact on the bank’s earnings and financial health. The ability of our customers to repay their obligations will be impacted by the general economic conditions impacting our market area and factors specific to the borrowers’ businesses, as well as the underlying financial strength of the borrower and any other guarantors. While the Bank has successfully lent on commercial real estate in the Puget Sound area of Washington State for a number of years, it is exposed to credit losses if that market experiences a significant and prolonged downturn. Interest Rate Risk The Bank is subject to fluctuations in interest rates in that its interest-bearing liabilities reprice on different terms than its interest-earning assets. Such asymmetrical changes can have a major impact on the Bank’s net interest income, which is its primary source of earnings. The Bank measures, monitors, and manages interest rate through a variety of tools including simulation modeling. There is a chance that the Bank’s efforts will not effectively capture the asset/liability relationships and thereby not effectively mitigating changes in interest rates on the Bank’s income. Further, the Bank has used derivatives, including interest rate swaps, in the management of interest rate risk. However, given the complicated nature of the accounting for derivatives, such instruments may lead to volatility in GAAP earnings even when successfully hedging the Bank’s balance sheet from changes in rates. 25 Liquidity Risk As a financial intermediary, the Bank must have adequate liquidity (cash and/or borrowing capacity) to meet its customers’ needs for loans and conversely, have adequate funds to meet any demands for their deposits. Inadequate liquidity could lead to a loss of business and revenue if the Bank were precluded from pursuing potential borrowers due to a lack of lendable funds. The Bank establishes guidelines as to various measures of liquidity, including the sources and uses of funds, eligible collateral for pledging for secured borrowings, and the ability to borrow against its FHLB line of credit. However, the inability to tap these sources of funds, for whatever reason, would have a profoundly negative effect on the Bank’s ability to meet its customer’s needs. Transaction Risk The Bank is in the business of processing financial transactions for its customers. In the course of that business, it may be subject to fraud, embezzlement, or even honest mistakes in processing transactions. Such incidents expose the Bank to financial loss. In addition, improper processing of transactions could lead to regulatory sanctions and have a negative impact on Cascade’s reputation and relationships with its customers. Compliance/Regulatory Risk As a commercial bank, Cascade is subject to extensive examination and regulation at both the bank and holding company level. Failure to comply with any of the relevant statutes and regulations could lead to severe restrictions on our ability to conduct business and/or lead to material fines and penalties. The level of regulation has increased dramatically in recent years due to the Bank Secrecy Act and the privacy requirements of Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Assuring that the Bank has adequate resources to meet its new regulatory requirements could increase the Bank’s operating expenses. Strategic Risk Financial services, in general, and banking, in particular, are mature, highly competitive businesses. There is fierce competition for both loans and deposits from a wide array of providers. Many providers are seeking to penetrate the Bank’s existing market. The result has been margin compression as the relative price of lending has been pushed down and the relative price of deposits has been bid up. Reputation Risk As a provider of services to the public, the reputation of the Bank for competence, honesty, and integrity is of great importance. The loss of that reputation through poor customer service, misfeasance or malfeasance on the part of the Bank’s staff could have a profoundly negative impact on Cascade’s ability to successfully implement its business plan. Business Continuity Risk Like all businesses, Cascade is exposed to earthquakes, floods, and other natural or man-made disasters that can cause an interruption in its operations. The Bank has established a Business Continuity Plan to guide the restoration of business process departments in similar disruptions and tests the Plan on an annual basis. However, a major event could have a material impact on the Bank’s business and its earnings. The Bank also runs the risk that it is not adequately insured against such events. Again, a lack of insurance or being under-insured would have an impact on the Bank’s profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 26 Item 