ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In the course of conducting our business operations, the Corporation and the Bank are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services industry. The following discusses some of the key inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations as well as other risk factors, which are particularly relevant to us in the current period of significant economic and market disruptions. Other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report or other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business and operations, and these risk factors should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that may affect the Corporation and the Bank. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business and Markets Our capital position has deteriorated and we are now categorized by the FDIC as undercapitalized, and subject to an FDIC Order to raise additional capital, and we may become subject to further adverse regulatory actions. The Corporation’s and the Bank’s capital positions have deteriorated and the Bank is now considered to be “undercapitalized” under the prompt corrective action provision of the FDI Act and related regulations, and we are subject to regulatory actions, including an FDIC Order requiring us to raise at least $68.0 million of additional capital by November 18, 2010. We have not been able to raise additional capital to date, and therefore, risk further regulatory actions and penalties. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on the current capital markets and on our financial performance. See Item 1 of this report captioned “Regulation and Supervision” for further discussion. If our capital levels further decline, we may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions, which could adversely affect our earnings, business and operations. Our auditor’s opinion on our 2010 financial statements includes a “going concern” qualification to our financials. As a result of the FDIC Order, the significant operating losses incurred in 2010 and 2009, and our need to raise additional capital, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, contains an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. See Item 15: Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2010 financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties, which could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern qualification to our financials could make it even more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Restrictions imposed by regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on us and failure to comply with these regulatory actions could result in further regulatory action or restrictions. The business and operations of the Corporation and our subsidiary, Cascade Bank, are currently subject to regulatory actions, which for example, generally prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing stock, retaining new directors or senior managers or changing the duties of senior management, paying management or consulting fees or other funds to the Corporation, and extending additional credit with respect to nonperforming and adversely classified loans, which management believes complicates the workout of troubled loans. We are also required to raise additional capital. These and other regulatory actions are described in more detail in Item 1 of this report under “Regulation and Supervision.” Management believes that it is in compliance with all the requirements of these regulatory actions, other than the requirement to raise additional capital. These regulatory actions and any future actions could continue to adversely affect our earnings, business and operations. In addition, failure to comply with these regulatory actions or any future actions could result in further regulatory actions or restrictions, including monetary penalties and the potential closure of Cascade Bank. 16 The downturn in the real estate market and weakness in the economy continue to adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in our western Washington market. Like many other financial institutions, we are being affected by sharp declines in residential and commercial real estate values, with rising foreclosures and high unemployment. Continued declines in residential and commercial real estate values and home sales and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment and job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers and demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and earnings, increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. We have been experiencing significant deterioration in our loan portfolio, centered in our residential construction and land development loans. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 86.4% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans secured by real estate, made up of 44.6% commercial real estate loans, 25.3% one-to-four family residential loans, 9.6% multifamily loans, 6.9% land acquisition and development/land loans. Despite some recent signs of stabilization or improvement, the deterioration in our loan portfolio which began in 2008 and has been centered in our residential construction and land development loans, continues to be a significant challenge for us, although the pace of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses slowed in the latter half of 2010. The contraction or expansion of our nonaccrual loan portfolio and other real estate owned (REO) properties in future periods will depend upon our ongoing collection efforts and changes in market conditions. We have a dedicated team of 6 employees focused on the management of problem loans, but there is no guarantee that this team will be able to effectively manage the amount of problem loans we may encounter in the future. Additional information regarding credit risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Loans.” Due to unforeseen circumstances and/or changes in estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future losses. An essential element of our business is to make loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses are assessed each quarter by management, reviewed by our audit committee and external auditors, and were subject to recent examinations by our federal and state regulators. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses increased to $26.1 million, or 2.62% of our total loans of $997.7 million, as a result of significant additional provisions for loan losses and charge-offs in 2010. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Allowance for Loan Losses.” The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance as well as the appropriate amount of loan charge-offs (net of loan recoveries) is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions and there may be a range of potential estimates. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in real estate values in our markets and interest rates that are beyond our control. Our underwriting policies, credit monitoring processes and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses, and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Due to our “undercapitalized” status and the regulatory actions against us, we are also subject to additional examinations. Any such additional loan losses, should they occur, would adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may continue to incur additional losses relating to nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts, and restructurings to manage our problem 17 assets, although there are no assurances that such techniques will succeed. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. If Cascade Bank’s foreclosed assets are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if the Bank is required to increase its valuation reserves, it could suffer additional losses. Cascade Bank obtains updated collateral valuations when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate or real property owned and at certain other times. The net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value, or fair value, of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs. A writedown is recorded for any excess in the asset’s net book value over its fair value. If property values decline, the fair value of the foreclosed assets may not be sufficient to recover the carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Significant charge-offs to the foreclosed assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the foreclosed assets and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Due to our undercapitalized status and various regulatory orders and agreements in place, we are subject to additional examinations, including the review of foreclosed properties. Any increase in the charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market and other constraints on our construction and development loan origination volume have decreased our interest and fee income which have not been fully offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate, general market conditions and other factors, our construction and development loan originations have been materially constrained in 2010 and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, management’s revised business plan has de-emphasized the origination of construction loans. This has lowered interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. We have not succeeded in finding new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset declines in our interest income and origination of all new loans has decreased significantly. As a result, our total revenues have declined relative to our total noninterest expenses, and management cannot assure you that our total loans or assets will not continue to decline in the future. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in some circumstances, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans we are required to make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Defaults and related losses in our residential construction and land development loan portfolio could result in a significant increase in REO balances and the number of properties to be disposed of, which would adversely affect our financial results. As part of our collection process for all nonperforming real estate loans, we may foreclose on and take title to the property serving as collateral for the loan. Real estate owned by us and not used in the ordinary course of our operations is referred to as other real estate owned (REO) property. We expect to take additional properties into REO. Increased REO balances lead to greater expenses as we incurs costs to manage and dispose of the properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of improvements prior to sale. Any decrease in sale prices on properties may lead to REO write-downs with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. Our management expects that earnings over the next several quarters could be negatively affected by various expenses associated with REO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in real estate during the period they are held in REO. The management and oversight of REO is time consuming and can be complex and can require significant resources of our management and employees. 18 We will also be at risk of further declines in real estate prices in the market areas in which we conduct our lending business. Our future earnings may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory actions taken against us, as well as those legal actions that Cascade Financial Corporation has and may pursue. Cascade Financial Corporation and Cascade Bank are involved in the regulatory, collection and potential foreclosure actions and proceedings referenced in “Item 3: Legal Proceedings,” which, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and our ability to raise capital. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect our results of operations until they are resolved. Our profitability and the value of shareholders’ investments may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels in the financial services area. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not stockholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Cascade Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and our management expects that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities and on terms which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we utilize and maintain a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. We may become more dependent on these sources, which include advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, and our profitability would be adversely affected. Certain repurchase agreements we entered into include substantial termination fees. We also use repurchase agreements for funding needs. The Bank has $50.0 million in repurchase agreements that have provisions allowing the agreements to be terminated by its counterparty. While we have received no indication that these repurchase agreements will be terminated prior to maturity, and the transactions are well secured by securities pledged to the counterparty, management believes that the likelihood of termination of the agreements is reasonably possible. If these repurchase agreements had been terminated as of December 31, 2010, the termination fee would have been approximately $13.7 million. An additional $75.0 million in repurchase agreements have provisions allowing termination by its counterparty with a termination fee, but these agreements cannot be terminated prior to December 2012, provided the Bank offers the lender additional securities in November and December 2011. Repurchase agreements with this lender totaling $25 million and $50 million 19 could be terminated in December 2012 and November 2013 respectively. The termination fee related to these agreements cannot be estimated. An additional $20.0 million in repurchase agreements do not include a termination fee provision, but can be terminated by its counterparty at par. The FDIC Order limits the types of funding sources on which we may rely and may have a negative impact on our liquidity. Pursuant to the terms of the FDIC Order, we may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits, and are required to submit a plan that eliminates our reliance on brokered deposits. In addition, certain interest-rate limits apply to our brokered and solicited deposits. The reduction in the level of brokered deposits, even according to their regular maturity dates, may have a negative impact on our liquidity in the near term. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Furthermore, we are now required to provide a higher level of collateral for any funds that we borrow from the Federal Reserve, and we may be required to provide additional collateral to our other funding sources as well. Any additional collateral requirements or limitations on our ability to access additional funding sources are expected to have a negative impact on our liquidity. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk, which is the primary market risk affecting our financial performance. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. Loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Interest rate volatility and credit risk adjusted rate spreads may impact our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, particularly the fair value of our junior subordinated debentures. The widening of market interest rate spreads on junior subordinated debentures to levels above the contractual spreads on our outstanding debentures, combined with recent reductions in three month LIBOR rates, has contributed to positive fair value adjustments in our junior subordinated debentures carried at fair value over the last three years. Tightening of these spreads may result in recognizing fair value adjustments that negatively impact our earnings in the future. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. Approximately 86.4% of our outstanding loan portfolio at December 31, 2010, was secured by real estate. In the course of our business and as a result of current market conditions, we have foreclosed and taken title to real estate which could subject us to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives, which may make it difficult to attract and retain key members of management. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury owns our Series A Preferred Stock. These standards generally apply to our five most highly compensated senior executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and certain of these restrictions also apply up to the next 20 most highly compensated senior executives. The standards include, among other things: · ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; · a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer or one of the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; · a prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers; · an agreement not to deduct, for tax purposes, annual compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer; and · limitations on bonuses and incentive compensation. We depend on the services of existing management to carry out our business and investment strategies. In order for us to implement our strategy to emphasize relationship banking, we will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. Competition for such personnel is significant in our geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects, including failure to properly address operational risks. These issues include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; privacy; properly maintaining customer and associate personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. We are also facing enhanced public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and the regulatory orders and agreement currently in place. Failure to appropriately address the requirements stemming from regulatory actions could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, reputational harm and legal risks, which could among other consequences increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to use some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired. There is a significant likelihood that if we complete a capital raise involving equity financing, we will experience an “ownership change,” which would cause a reduction in the value of our net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) realizable for income tax purposes. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, as well as certain recognized built-in losses and other carryforwards, after an “ownership change” occurs. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change NOLs and other losses we can use to reduce our tax liability generally equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” and the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate for the month of the “ownership change." 21 Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At December 31, 2010, Cascade Bank held Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Seattle stock with a par value of $11.9 million. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to recoverability testing per accounting guidance for the impairment of long-lived assets. The FHLB currently has a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the FHFA), its primary regulator, and has suspended future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. We utilize the Federal Home Loan Bank as an additional source of liquidity. We are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Seattle, which is one of the twelve regional banks comprising the FHLB System. The FHLB provides credit for member financial institutions. As a member of the FHLB, Cascade Bank is authorized to apply for advances from the FHLB, which are collateralized in the aggregate by loans, securities, FHLB stock, and by deposits with the FHLB. At December 31, 2010, we had $159.0 million in FHLB advances and a $40.0 million letter of credit outstanding. FHLB advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If we were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to FHLB advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated, or future financial problems at the FHLBs may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by member banks. Should this occur, our short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should we be restricted from using FHLB advances due to weakness in the FHLB System or with the FHLB of Seattle, we may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include seeking lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. Our investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability. Our securities portfolio includes securities which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises and other securities which are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The unrealized gains or losses in our available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect our financial condition, profitability and prospects. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in the securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past two years. Volatile market conditions or deteriorating financial performance of the issuer or obligor may detrimentally affect the value of these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Further increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance premiums or special assessments could adversely impact our earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Bank paid $4.1 million in deposit insurance. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The escalating pace of bank failures that began in 2008 has significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects continued insured institution failures in the next few years, which likely will result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. 22 On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. We were required to make a payment of $7.3 million to the FDIC on December 31, 2009, and to record the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. The FDIC indicated that with the proceeds of the prepayment, additional special assessments were not necessary in 2010; however, the prepayment requirement does not necessarily preclude the FDIC from imposing a special assessment, from changing assessment rates or from revising the risk-based assessment system, pursuant to the existing notice-and-comment rulemaking framework. Should the FDIC find it necessary to impose any further special assessments or further increase assessment rates, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will further increase compared to prior periods. Concern of customers over the safety of their deposits may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the safety of their deposits and the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may not believe Cascade Bank is a safe place to keep their deposit accounts and they may remove their deposit accounts. Additionally, customers may withdraw deposits from Cascade Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at Cascade Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs, liquidity and net income. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete in our market areas with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business and deposits, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our results of operations depend upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase or maintain our interest earning assets. In that regard, the adverse economic conditions that began in 2007 and that have continued into 2011 have significantly reduced our origination of new loans, and there is no assurance that our total loans or assets will increase or not decline in 2011. Our controls and procedures may fail to detect certain events or be circumvented. We are subject to certain operations risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in keeping up with technological changes in our industry. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The future success of the Corporation and Cascade Bank depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of the Bank’s customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the operations of the Corporation and Cascade Bank. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to the Bank’s customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on our ability, as well as the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated With Our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline further and the value of our other securities may decline as a result of adverse changes in our financial performance, the economy, market conditions and other factors. The trading price of our common stock has declined significantly and may decline further. The trading price also may fluctuate widely because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies, especially financial institutions. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · our ability to raise capital to meet regulatory requirements and fund our business growth; · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; · failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · actions by institutional stockholders; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; · proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments; · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility in recent years. As a result, the market price of our common shares may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our 24 equity or equity-related securities, and other factors, including those identified above in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Further declines in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We do not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on Nasdaq. We do not meet the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as set forth in Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), as a result of the bid price of our common stock closing below the required minimum $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We have been granted an extension by the NASDAQ staff to August 1, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 bid price per share requirement. The extension was based on the Corporation meeting the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on the Capital Market with the exception of the bid price requirement, and the Corporation’s written notice of its intention to meet the $1.00 per share requirement by August 1, 2011, by effecting a reverse stock split if necessary. We intend to actively monitor the bid price and minimum market value for our common stock between now and the compliance date, and intend, if necessary, to pursue available options to regain compliance with the Nasdaq requirements. If we are unable to regain compliance with Nasdaq requirements and are delisted, market liquidity for our common stock could be severely affected, and our stockholders’ ability to sell securities in the secondary market could be more limited. Delisting from Nasdaq could also negatively affect the value of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including, but not limited to, the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We have continuing losses and continuing volatility in quarterly results. The Corporation reported a net loss of $70.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Losses resulted primarily from the high level of non-performing assets and the related reduction in interest income and increased provision for loan losses. In addition, several other factors affecting the business can cause significant variations in the quarterly results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of loan originations and sales, the differences between the cost of funds and the average interest rate on earning assets, and other-than-temporary impairment charges in the Corporation’s investment securities portfolio could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. We can provide no assurance that we will not have continuing losses in our operations. Shareholders interests may be diluted by future equity offerings or transactions. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. In the event of liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, including the $25.8 million of trust preferred securities and the $39.0 million of preferred shares held by the U.S. Treasury, and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. In any equity financing, we believe our stockholders would experience substantial dilution and the securities issued could have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our current stockholders, depending on the terms of any shares we were to issue. Holders of our common shares are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Any debt financing also could negatively affect future earnings due to interest charges. Shareholders may not receive any dividends on Cascade Financial Corporation common shares. In June of 2009, we announced that we had suspended payment of cash dividends on our common stock to preserve capital. Commencing with the interest payments due in November of 2009, we exercised our right to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our $25.8 million of outstanding junior subordinated debentures related to trust preferred securities and dividends on our outstanding $39.0 million of preferred stock issued to the Treasury. We may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock until we are current on interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures and dividends on our preferred stock. We continue to accrue for these payments. In addition, cash dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for payment of cash dividends to our shareholders, and under the regulatory actions against us, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the regulators. 25 Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Cascade Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from Cascade Bank. However, substantially all of our activities are conducted through Cascade Bank, and, consequently, as the parent company of the Bank, the principal source of funds from which we service debt and pay our obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which Cascade Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. If Cascade Bank is unable to pay dividends to us for a prolonged period, we may not be able to service our debt or pay our obligations and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be materially adversely effected. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) in response to the crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators have and continue to implement a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) which, among other things, amended the executive compensation provisions of EESA. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Reform Act which, among other things, imposes additional restrictions on banking activities. There can be no assurance, however, that any of the legislations will ease the current market volatility and limited credit availability. The failure of this legislation to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. Compliance with the recently enacted financial reform legislation may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact financial results. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Reform Act) into law. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act will change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act may not be known for many months or years. Significant changes will include: · the establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel, which will be responsible for identifying and monitoring systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities, and practices; · the establishment of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, within the Federal Reserve, to serve as a dedicated consumer-protection regulatory body with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators; · amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations; · elimination of federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s interest expense; · broadened base for FDIC insurance assessments, with assessments now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution; · permanent increase to the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013; 26 · requirement that publicly traded companies provide stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorization for the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not; · enhanced supervision of large bank holding companies (i.e., those with over $50 billion in total consolidated assets), with more stringent supervisory standards to be applied to them; · the creation of a special regime to allow for the orderly liquidation of systemically important financial companies, including the establishment of an orderly liquidation fund; · the development of regulations to address derivatives markets, including clearing and exchange trading requirements and a framework for regulating derivatives-market participants; · enhanced supervision of credit-rating agencies through the Office of Credit Ratings within the SEC; and · increased regulation of asset-backed securities, including a requirement that issuers of asset-backed securities retain at least 5% of the risk of the asset-backed securities. Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than us. Nonetheless, there are provisions that apply to us and we must begin to comply with them immediately. In addition, federal agencies will promulgate rules and regulations to implement and enforce provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions, which may adversely impact financial results. The precise nature, extent and timing of many of these reforms and the impact on us is still uncertain. The Corporation’s issuance of securities to the United States Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to stockholders and is dilutive to the holders of our common stock. In connection with our sale of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury, the Corporation also issued to the Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 863,442 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until November 21, 2011 or until the Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Corporation will not be able to increase dividends above levels in effect when the warrant was issued ($0.045 per share of common stock on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our shares without Treasury approval, with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. In addition, we are not able to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. Moreover, we are prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock due to the regulatory orders and agreements in place. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Unless the Corporation is able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.00% (approximately $1.95 million annually) to 9.00% (approximately $3.16 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a negative effect on our liquidity. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding $25.8 million of junior subordinated debentures. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. The junior subordinated debentures associated with the trust preferred securities are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our common stockholders. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) under specified circumstances, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2009, Cascade Bank has been prohibited from making dividend payments to us, which in turn led us to defer the payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures and stop payment of dividends on our common stock. There are no assurances about if or when payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures, and payment of dividends on our common stock, will resume. 27 Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 