Risk Factors In the course of conducting our business operations, the Corporation and the Bank are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services industry. The following discusses some of the key inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations as well as other risk factors, which are particularly relevant to us in the current period of significant economic and market disruptions. Other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report or other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business and operations, and these risk factors should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that may affect the Corporation and the Bank. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” 13 Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for an extended period. Since 2008, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in the state of Washington and the United States deteriorated significantly during the second half of 2008 and further eroded in 2009. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, and more recently, increased vacancy rates and reduced rents for offices and other commercial real estate, have negatively impacted the economy in general and the banking industry in particular. The resulting economic pressure on businesses and consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has and is expected to continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and access to capital. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial and multifamily and other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) in response to the crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators have and continue to implement a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) which, among other things, amended the executive compensation provisions of EESA. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other regulations and legislation to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect Cascade’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of Cascade’s securities. Our loan portfolio mix, which has a concentration of loans secured by real estate, could result in increased credit risk in an economic recession. Continued deterioration in the real estate market would lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in construction, commercial real estate and business loans. These types of loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about heavy loan concentrations. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of construction, business and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of these loans may cause a significant increase in our nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 A further downturn in the economies or real estate values in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on both borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and the value of the real property securing such loans. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts, and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses or if we are required to increase our provision for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a borrower we incur the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and potential credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and assumptions we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, or estimates. We have been experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses and we increased our provision for loan losses in 2009, which adversely affected our results of operations. If current adverse conditions in the housing and real estate markets and the economy continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, given current economic conditions, we expect we could experience further increases in delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions imposed by regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on us and failure to comply with these regulatory actions could result in further regulatory action or restrictions. The businesses and operations of the Corporation and our subsidiary, Cascade Bank, are currently subject to regulatory actions, including the FDIC Memorandum, which, for example, generally prohibits us from paying dividends, repurchasing stock, retaining new directors or senior managers or changing the duties of senior management, paying management or consulting fees or other funds to the Corporation, and extending additional credit with respect to nonperforming and adversely classified loans without prior approval, which management believes, complicates the workout of troubled loans. These and other regulatory actions are described in more detail in Item 1of this report captioned "Regulatory Actions." The FDIC identified deficiencies in the management and supervision of Cascade Bank that primarily relate to loan underwriting, procedures and monitoring, excessive 15 concentrations in construction and land development loans, and related concerns about Cascade Bank’s capital and liquidity. Management believes it has addressed the concerns and that it is in compliance with all the requirements of the FDIC Memorandum. These regulatory actions and any future actions could continue to adversely affect our earnings, business and operations. In addition, failure to comply with these regulatory actions or any future actions could result in further regulatory actions or restrictions. Our profitability and the value of shareholders’ investments may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels in the financial services area. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not stockholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Cascade Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and our management expects that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Market and other constraints on our construction and development loan origination volume are expected to lead to decreases in our interest and fee income that are not expected to be fully offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate, the recession and other factors, we project construction and development loan originations to be materially constrained in 2010 and beyond. Additionally, management’s revised business plan will de-emphasize the origination of construction loans. This will lower interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expense. We expect that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset expected declines in our interest income. In that regard, the adverse economic conditions that began in 2007 and that have continued in 2010 have significantly reduced our origination of all new loans, and management cannot assure you that our total loans or assets will increase or not decline in 2010. The Corporation’s issuance of securities to the United States Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to shareholders and is dilutive to the holders of our common stock. In connection with our sale of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury, the Corporation also issued to the Treasury a warrant to purchase approximately 863,442 shares of our common stock. The terms of the transaction with the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. Until November 21, 2011 or until the Treasury no longer holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Corporation will not be able to increase dividends above current levels ($0.045 per share of common stock on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our shares without Treasury approval, with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. In addition, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all on our common stock unless we are current on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Unless the Corporation is able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.00% (approximately $1.95 million annually) to 9.00% (approximately $3.16 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a negative effect on our liquidity. 16 Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or our banking subsidiary’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or our banking subsidiary could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt, preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Cascade Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Cascade Bank. The availability of dividends from Cascade Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations, and under the FDIC Memorandum the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the FDIC and the DFI. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Cascade Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If Cascade Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Cascade Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in Item 1 of this report captioned “Regulation.” During the fourth quarter, previously disclosed FDIC restrictions prohibited dividend payments from the Bank to the holding company, which in turn led us to defer the payment of interest on our Junior Subordinated Debentures and dividends on our preferred stock. We continue to accrue these payments and expect to resume cumulative payments on these securities upon FDIC approval. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our existing shareholders could result and, in any case, securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our current shareholders. Debt financing could also negatively affect future earnings due to interest charges. Shareholders’ interests may be diluted by future equity offerings or transactions. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if the Corporation’s or Cascade Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated 17 notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Holders of our common shares are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. You may not receive any dividends on Cascade common stock. In June, 2009, in order to preserve capital we announced that we had suspended payment of cash dividends on our common stock and during the fourth quarter we exercised our right to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures related to trust preferred securities. We may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock until we are current on interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures. In addition, cash dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for payment of cash dividends to our shareholders, and under the FDIC Memorandum the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the FDIC and the DFI. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock limits our payment of dividends on common stock, as described above. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Western Washington market in which our loans are concentrated and adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk, which is the primary market risk affecting our financial performance. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. Loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Interest rate volatility and credit risk adjusted rate spreads may impact our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, particularly the fair value of our junior subordinated debentures. The widening of market interest rate spreads on junior subordinated debentures to levels above the contractual spreads on our outstanding debentures combined with recent reductions in three month LIBOR rates has contributed to positive fair value adjustments in our junior subordinated debentures carried at fair value over the last three years. Tightening of these spreads may result in recognizing fair value adjustments that negatively impact our earnings in the future. 18 Our investment portfolio includes securities that are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact our profitability. Our securities portfolio includes securities, which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. Government agencies or government-sponsored enterprises, and other securities, which are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The unrealized gains or losses in our available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could adversely affect our financial condition, profitability and prospects. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in the securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past two years. Volatile market conditions or deteriorating financial performance of the issuer or obligor may detrimentally affect the value of these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Further increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance premiums or special assessments could adversely impact our earnings. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $740,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The new regulations base the assessment rate for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 and for 2010 on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 on the modified third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under the prepaid assessment rule, we were required to make a payment of $7.3 million to the FDIC on December 31, 2009, and to record the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. The FDIC has indicated that with the proceeds of the prepayment, additional special assessments were not necessary in 2009; however, the prepayment requirement does not necessarily preclude the FDIC from imposing a special assessment, from changing assessment rates or from revising the risk-based assessment system, pursuant to the existing notice-and-comment rulemaking framework. Should the FDIC find it necessary to impose any further special assessments or further increase assessment rates, our FDIC general insurance premium expense will further increase compared to prior periods. A potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could distract our management, divert our resources, and adversely impact our financial condition. On March 2, 2010, Craig Skotdal, Arthur Skotdal, Andrew Skotdal, Skotdal Quality Investments, L.L.C., Skotdal Enterprises, Inc. and Arthur and Marianne Skotdal Revocable Living Trust (together, the “Skotdals”) and Dwayne Lane, Thomas Rainville, Christian Sievers, and Arnold Hofmann filed a Schedule 13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission that attaches as an exhibit a letter dated February 23, 2010 from the Skotdals’ legal counsel to the Corporation’s Board of Directors. The letter requests that the Board of Directors nominate Craig Skotdal, Thomas Rainville, Christian Sievers, and Arnold Hofmann as the Corporation’s slate of director nominees for election at the 2010 annual stockholders meeting. The letter 19 states that if the Board refuses to take the requested action, the Skotdals “will immediately commence a solicitation of proxies for the election of the shareholder slate, to let the shareholders decide.” On March 3, 2010, the Skotdals submitted a request to management demanding shareholder names, addresses, and share ownership information and stating that they intend to move forward with preparations for soliciting proxies for the election of their candidates to the Board. A proxy solicitation contest could distract the Corporation’s management from operations, divert the Corporation’s resources and negatively impact the Corporation’s financial condition, profitability and prospects. Cascade’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates Cascade’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Cascade’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Cascade’s financial condition and results of operations. Cascade Continually Encounters Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Cascade’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Cascade’s operations. Many of Cascade’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Cascade may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on Cascade’s financial condition and results of operations. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to support an unexpected reduction in deposits. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we utilize and maintain a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. We may become more dependent on these sources, which include advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, and our profitability would be adversely affected. Our use of brokered deposits and other non-core deposits is restricted by the FDIC Memorandum. See Item 1of this report captioned “Regulatory Actions.” We may experience future goodwill impairment. The Corporation’s common stock has been trading at a price below its book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets. The valuation of goodwill is determined using discounted cash flows of forecasted earnings, estimated sales price based on recent observable market transactions and market capitalization based on current stock price. If impairment was deemed to exist, a write down of the asset would occur with a charge to earnings. In the second quarter of 2009, the Corporation recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $11.7 million based upon an impairment analysis. The non-cash charge represented the write-off of a portion of the goodwill recorded from a prior bank acquisition. The goodwill charge does not impact liquidity, operations, tangible capital or the Corporation’s regulatory capital ratios. A deferred tax asset position comprises $5.0 million of our total assets at December 31, 2009, and we are required to assess the recoverability of this asset on an ongoing basis. Deferred tax assets are evaluated on a quarterly basis to determine if they are expected to be recoverable in the future. Our evaluation considers positive and negative evidence to assess whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. The risk of a valuation allowance increases if continuing operating losses are incurred. Future negative operating performance or other negative evidence may result in a valuation allowance being recorded against some, or all, of this amount. A valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 