D. Risk factors Risks relating to our business and the PRC's power industry Government regulation of on-grid power tariffs and other aspects of the power industry may adversely affect our business Similar to electric power companies in other countries, we are subject to governmental and electric grid regulations in virtually all aspects of our operations, including the amount and timing of electricity generations, the setting of on-grid tariffs, the performance of scheduled maintenance and compliance with power grid control and dispatch directives and environment protection. There can be no assurance that these regulations will not change in the future in a manner which could adversely affect our business. 3 The on-grid tariffs for our planned output are subject to a review and approval process involving the NDRC and the relevant provincial government. Prior to April 2001, the on-grid tariffs of our planned output were designed to enable us to recover all operating and debt servicing costs and to earn a fixed rate of return. Since April 2001, however, the PRC government has started to gradually implement a new on-grid tariff-setting mechanism based on the operating terms of power plants as well as the average costs of comparable power plants. Pursuant to the NDRC circular issued in June 2004, the on-grid tariffs for our newly built power generating units commencing operation from June 2004 have been set on the basis of the average social cost of comparable units adding tax and reasonable return in the regional grid. Any future reductions in our tariffs, or our inability to raise tariffs (for example, to cover any increased costs we may have to incur) as a result of the new on-grid tariff-setting mechanism, may adversely affect our revenue and profit. In addition, the PRC government started in 1999 to experiment with a program to effect power sales through competitive bidding in some of the provinces where we operate our power plants. The on-grid tariffs for power sold through competitive bidding are generally lower than the pre-approved on-grid tariffs for planned output. Although the power sales through competitive bidding in the last few years constituted only a small fraction of our total output, the PRC government is in the process of gradually expanding the program with a view to create a market-oriented electric power industry. Any increased power sales through competitive bidding may reduce our on-grid tariffs and adversely affect our revenue and profits. The on-grid tariff-setting mechanism is evolving with the reforming of the PRC electric power industry. There is no assurance that it will not change in a manner which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. See "Item 4 Information of the Company - B Business Overview - Pricing Policy". If our power plants receive less dispatching than Planned Generation, the power plants will sell less electricity than planned Our profitability depends, in part, upon each of our power plants generating electricity at a level sufficient to meet or exceed the planned generation, which in turn will be subject to local demand for electric power and dispatching to the grids by the dispatch Centres of the local grid companies. The dispatch of electric power generated by a power plant is controlled by the Dispatch Centre of the applicable grid companies pursuant to a dispatch agreement with us and to governmental dispatch regulations. In each of the markets we operate, we compete against other power plants for power sales. No assurance can be given that the Dispatch Centres will dispatch the full amount of the Planned Generation of our power plants. A reduction by the Dispatch Centre in the amount of electric power dispatched relative to a power plant's planned generation could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our operations. However, we have not encountered any such bias in the past. The power industry reform may negatively affect our business PRC government in 2002 announced and started to implement measures to further reform the power industry, with the ultimate goal to create a more open and fair power market. As part of the reform, five power generation companies, including Huaneng Group, were created or restructured to take over all the power generation assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. In addition, two grid companies were created to take over the power transmission and distribution assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. An independent power supervisory commission, the State Electricity Regulatory Commission ("SERC"), was created to regulate the power industry. It is uncertain how these reform measures and any further reforms are going to be implemented and how they will impact our business. We may face enhanced competition as the reform is being carried out. We are effectively controlled by Huaneng Group and HIPDC, whose interests may differ from those of our other shareholders Huaneng Group and HIPDC currently directly hold 8.75% and 42.03% of our total outstanding shares respectively. As Huaneng Group is HIPDC's parent company, they may exert effective control over us in concert. Their interests may sometimes conflict with those of our other minority shareholders. There is no assurance that Huaneng Group and HIPDC will always vote their shares, or direct the directors nominated by them to act in a way that will benefit our other minority shareholders. 4 Disruption in coal supply and its transportation as well as increase in coal price may adversely affect the normal operation of our power plants Almost all of our power plants are fueled by coal. We have obtained coal for our power plants through a combination of purchases pursuant to the key contracts and purchases in the open market. Although we have received sufficient and timely coal supply and transportation services for our operations and have not experienced shutdowns or reduced electricity generation caused by inadequate coal supply or transportation services, there can be no assurance that, in the event of national coal supply shortfalls, our operations will not be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operation are sensitive to the fluctuation of coal price. Since 2003, the continuous increase of coal price has increased our costs substantially and caused our profits to decline. Although the government has established a coal-electricity price linkage mechanism to allow power generation companies to increase their power tariffs to respond to the increase of coal price, the implementation of the mechanism involves significant uncertainties. There is no assurance that we will be able to adjust our power tariff to pass on the increase of coal price to our customers. For a detailed discussion of the coal-electricity price linkage mechanism, see "Item 4 Information of the Company-B Business Overview - Pricing Policy". Power plant development, acquisition and construction are a complex and time-consuming process, the delay of which may negatively affect the implementation of our growth strategy We develop, construct, manage and operate large power plants; success depends upon our ability to secure all required PRC Government approvals, power sales and dispatch agreements, construction contracts, fuel supply and transportation and electricity transmission arrangements. Delay or failure to secure any of these could increase cost or delay or prevent commercial operation of the affected power plant. Although each of our power plants in operation and the power plants under construction received all required PRC Government approvals in a timely fashion, no assurances can be given that all the future projects will receive approvals in a timely fashion or at all. We have generally acted as, and intend to continue to act as, the general contractor for the construction of our power plants. As with any major infrastructure construction effort, the construction of a power plant involves many risks, including shortages of equipment, material and labor, labor disturbances, accidents, inclement weather, unforeseen engineering, environmental, geological, delays and other problems and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Construction delays may result in loss of revenues. Failure to complete construction according to specifications may result in liabilities, decrease power plant efficiency, increase operating costs and reduce earnings. Although the construction of each of our power plants was completed on or ahead of schedule and within its budget, no assurance can be given that construction of future projects will be completed on schedule or within budget. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire existing power plants from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other parties. The timing and the likelihood of the consummation of any such acquisition will depend, among other things, on our ability to obtain financing and relevant PRC Government approvals and to negotiate relevant agreements for terms acceptable to us. Substantial capital is required for investing in or acquiring new power plants and failure to obtain capital on reasonable commercial terms will increase our financing cost and cause delay in our expansion plans An important component of our growth strategy is to develop new power plants and acquire operating power plants and related development rights from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other companies on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing depend on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks or other lenders, investor confidence in us and the continued success of our power plants. Although we have historically been able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, there can be no assurance that financing for future power plant developments and acquisitions will be available on terms acceptable to us or, in the event of an equity offering, that such offering will not result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Operation of power plants involves many risks and we may not have enough insurance to cover the economic losses if any of our power plants' ordinary operation is interrupted The operation of power plants involves many risks and hazards, including breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, improper installation or operation of equipment, labor disturbances, natural disasters, environmental hazards and industrial accidents. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may adversely affect the profitability of a power plant. We currently maintain insurance coverage that is typical in the electric power industry in the PRC and in amounts that we believe to be adequate. Such insurance, however, may not provide adequate coverage in 5 certain circumstances. In particular, in accordance with industry practice in the PRC, we do not generally maintain business interruption insurance, or any of third party liability insurance other than that included in construction all risks insurance or erection all risks insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury or property or environment damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operation. Although each of our power plants has a good record of safe operation, there is no assurance that the afore-mentioned accidents will not occur in the future. If the PRC government adopts new and stricter environmental laws and additional capital expenditure is required for complying with such laws, the operation of our power plants may be adversely affected and we may be required to make more investment in compliance with these environmental laws Our power plants, like all coal-fired power plants, discharge pollutants into the environment. We are subject to central and local government environmental protection laws and regulations, which currently impose base-level discharge fees for various polluting substances and graduated schedules of fees for the discharge of waste substances. These laws and regulations impose fines for violations of laws, regulations or decrees and provide for the possible closure by the central government or local government of any power plant which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure certain activities causing environmental damage. We attach great importance to the environmental related matters of our existing power plants and our power plants under construction. We have implemented a system that is designed to control pollution caused by our power plants, including the establishment of an environmental protection office at each power plant, adoption of relevant control and evaluation procedures and the installation of certain pollution control equipment. We believe our environmental protection systems and facilities for the power plants are adequate for us to comply with applicable central government and local government environmental protection laws and regulations. The PRC Government may impose new, stricter laws and regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental protection. The PRC is a party to the Framework Convention on Climate Change ("Climate Change Convention"), which is intended to limit or capture emissions of "greenhouse" gases, such as carbon dioxide. Ceilings on such emissions could limit the production of electricity from fossil fuels, particularly coal, or increase the costs of such production. At present, ceilings on the emissions of "greenhouse" gases have not been assigned to developing countries under the Climate Change Convention. Therefore, the Climate Change Convention would not have a major effect on the Company in the short-term because the PRC as a developing country is not obligated to reduce its emissions of "greenhouse" gases at present, and the PRC government has not adopted relevant control standards and policies. If the PRC were to agree to such ceilings, or otherwise reduce its reliance on coal-fired power plants, our business prospects could be adversely affected. Our business benefits from certain PRC government tax incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, the incentives could adversely affect our operating results According to the relevant income tax law, foreign invested enterprises are, in general, subject to statutory income tax of 33% (30% enterprise income tax and 3% local income tax). If these enterprises are located in certain specified locations or cities, or are specifically approved by State Tax Bureau, a lower tax rate would be applied. Effective from January 1, 1999, in accordance with the practice notes on the PRC income tax laws applicable to foreign invested enterprises investing in energy and transportation infrastructure businesses, a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% (after the approval of State Tax Bureau) is applicable across the country. We applied this rule to all of our wholly owned operating power plants after obtaining the approval of State Tax Bureau. In addition, certain power plants are exempted from enterprise income tax for two years starting from the first profit-making year, after offsetting all tax losses carried forward from the previous years (at most of five years), followed by a 50% reduction of the applicable tax rate for the next three years. The statutory income tax is assessed individually based on each of their results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the Corporate Income Tax Law of PRC, or the New Corporate Income Tax Law, was enacted, which will become effective on January 1, 2008. The New Corporate Income Tax Law will impose a uniform income tax rate of 25% for domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises. Therefore, our power plants currently subject to a 33% income tax rate may be subject to a lower tax rate of 25% starting on January 1, 2008. With regard to our power plants currently entitled to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, their effective tax rate may be gradually increased to 25% within a five-year transition period commencing on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, the effective tax rate of our wholly-owned power plants may increase over time. In addition, although our power plants currently entitled to tax exemption and reduction under the current income tax laws and regulations may continue to enjoy such preferential treatments until the expiration of the same, newly established power plants may not be able to benefit from such tax incentives after the New Corporate Income Tax Law becomes effective, unless they can satisfy specific qualifications, if any, provided by then effective laws and regulations on preferential tax treatment. 6 The State Council of PRC is in the process of formulating detailed rules and regulations for the implementation of the New Corporate Income Tax Law. Given that there are a number of uncertain factors involved in the implementation of the New Corporate Income Tax Law, we are currently unable to accurately evaluate its impact on us. However, the increase of applicable income tax rate and elimination of the preferential tax treatment with regard to certain of our power plants may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the tax benefits currently available to us.] If there is a devaluation of Renminbi, our debt burden will increase and the dividend return to our overseas shareholders may decrease As a power producer operating only in China, we collect our revenues in Renminbi and have to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies to (i) repay some of our borrowings which are denominated in foreign currencies, (ii) purchase foreign made equipment and parts for repair and maintenance, and (iii) pay out dividend to our overseas shareholders. The value of the Renminbi against the US dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, has historically been set by the People's Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the US dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted initially in an approximately 2.0% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the US dollar. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the US dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the US dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the US dollar. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a devaluation of Renminbi in the future. If there is such devaluation, our debt servicing cost will increase and the return to our overseas investors may decrease. Forward-looking information may prove inaccurate This document contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "going forward" and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward-looking statement. Such statements reflect the current views of our management with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors described in this document. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Risks relating to the PRC China's economic, political and social conditions as well as government policies could significantly affect our business All of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, economy growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market oriented economy. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government at various levels, in recent years the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the economy of China and a high level of management autonomy. Some of these measures will benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in taxation, changes in power tariff for our power plants, changes in the usage and costs of state controlled transportation services, and changes in state policies affecting the power industry. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves significant uncertainties The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People's Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and 7 regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. In addition, as the PRC legal system develops, we cannot assure that changes in such laws and regulations, and their interpretation or their enforcement will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We are subject to certain PRC regulations governing PRC companies that are listed overseas. These regulations contain certain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of these PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC Company Law and these regulations, in general, and the provisions for protection of shareholders' rights and access to information, in particular, are less developed than those applicable to companies incorporated in Hong Kong, the US, the UK and other developed countries or regions. Such limited investor protections are compensated for, to a certain extent, by the Mandatory Provisions for the Articles of Association of Companies to be Listed Overseas and certain additional requirements that are imposed by the Listing Rules of The Hong Kong Stock Exchange with a view to reduce the magnitude of differences between the Hong Kong Company Law and PRC Company Law. The articles of association of all PRC companies listed in Hong Kong must incorporate such Mandatory Provisions and these additional requirements. Although our Articles of Association have incorporated such provisions and requirements, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will enjoy protections to which they may be entitled in other jurisdictions. 