D. Risk factors Risks relating to our business and the PRC’s power industry Government regulation of on-grid power tariffs and other aspects of the power industry may adversely affect our business Similar to electric power companies in other countries, we are subject to governmental and electric grid regulations in virtually all aspects of our operations, including the amount and timing of electricity generations, the setting of on-grid tariffs, the performance of scheduled maintenance, and the compliance with power grid control and dispatch directives as well as environment protection regulations. There can be no assurance that these regulations will not change in the future in a manner which could adversely affect our business. The on-grid tariffs for our planned output are subject to a review and approval process involving the NDRC and the relevant provincial government. Since April 2001, the PRC Government has been implementing an on-grid tariff-setting mechanism based on the operating terms of power plants as well as the average costs of comparable power plants. Pursuant to the NDRC circular issued in June 2004, the on-grid tariffs for our newly built power generating units commencing operation from June 2004 have been set on the basis of the average cost of comparable units adding tax and reasonable return in the regional grid. Any future reductions in our tariffs, or our inability to raise tariffs (for example, to cover any increased costs we may have to incur) as a result of the new on-grid tariff-setting mechanism, may adversely affect our revenue and profit. In addition, the PRC Government started a program in 1999 to effect power sales through competitive bidding in some of the provinces where we operate our power plants. The on-grid tariffs for power sold through competitive bidding are generally lower than the pre-approved on-grid tariffs for planned output. In the more recent few years, power sales through competitive bidding only accounted for a small portion of our overall power sales. Nevertheless, the PRC Government is seeking to expand the program. Any increased power sales through competitive bidding may reduce our on-grid tariffs and may adversely affect our revenue and profits. Furthermore, the PRC Government started in 2009 to promote the practice of direct power purchase by large power end-users. Pursuant to the circular jointly issued by NDRC, the State Electricity Regulatory Commission (“SERC”) and China National Energy Administration in June 2009, the direct power purchase price consists of direct transaction price, on-grid dispatch and distribution price and governmental levies and charges, in which the direct transaction price shall be freely determined through negotiation between the power generation company and the large power end-user. The price of direct power purchase shall be subject to the demand in the power market, and may increase due to power supply shortfall. Furthermore, the scale and mode of the transaction are also subject to the structure and level of development of local economy. In terms of power generation companies engaged in direct power purchase, direct power sales constitute a portion of the total power sales, thus affecting the on-grid power sales of the Company. In 2013, the PRC Government continued the reform in the area of direct power purchase by large power end-users. In July 2013, China National Energy Administration issued the Notice on Direct Purchases between Power End-users and Power Generation Companies, which officially implemented the direct purchases programs by large end-users. Among the provinces where we operate our power plants, seven of them, namely Shanxi, Jiangsu, Henan, Hunan, Guangdong, Fujian, and Gansu, had started the direct purchase program in 2013, and four of them, namely Jiangxi, Yunnan, Hubei and Liaoning, are actively promoting the direct purchase pilot program. In 2014, direct purchase programs by large end-users were also implemented in Zhejiang and Anhui. Although the direct power purchase may act as an alternative channel for our power sales, there is uncertainty as to the effect of the practice of direct power purchase over our operating results. The on-grid tariff-setting mechanism is evolving with the reforming of the PRC electric power industry. There is no assurance that it will not change in a manner which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. See “Item 4 Information of the Company – B. Business Overview – Pricing Policy”. If our power plants receive less dispatching than planned generation, the power plants will sell less electricity than planned Our profitability depends, in part, upon each of our power plants generating electricity at a level sufficient to meet or exceed the planned generation, which in turn will be subject to local demand for electric power and dispatching to the grids by the dispatch centers of the local grid companies. 3 The dispatch of electric power generated by a power plant is controlled by the dispatch center of the applicable grid companies pursuant to a dispatch agreement with us and to governmental dispatch regulations. In each of the markets we operate, we compete against other power plants for power sales. No assurance can be given that the dispatch centers will dispatch the full amount of the planned generation of our power plants. A reduction by the dispatch center in the amount of electric power dispatched relative to a power plant’s planned generation could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our operations. However, we have not encountered any such event in the past. In August 2007, the General Office of the State Council issued a notice, promoting the energy saving electricity dispatch policy, which provides dispatching priority to electricity generated from renewable resources over electricity generated from unrenewable resources. In October 2008, the SERC approved the trial implementation of the policy of energy saving electricity dispatch in certain pilot provinces. In 2013, the PRC Government continued promoting the policy of energy saving electricity dispatch. In 2014, the NDRC issued the Guidelines to Strengthen and Improve Operation and Management of Power Generations in an effort to further improve energy saving, emission reduction and resources allocation. We cannot assure that such implementation will not result in any decrease in the amount of the power dispatched by any of our power plants. The power industry reform may affect our business The PRC Government in 2002 announced and started to implement measures to further reform the power industry, with the ultimate goal of creating a more open and fair power market. As part of the reform, five power generation companies, including Huaneng Group, were created or restructured to take over all the power generation assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. In addition, two grid companies were created to take over the power transmission and distribution assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. An independent power supervisory commission, the SERC, was created to regulate the power industry. There might be further reforms, and it is uncertain how these reform measures and any further reforms will be implemented and impact our business. In December 2012, the PRC Government issued a notice to further reform the coal pricing mechanism, which mandated (1) the termination of all key coal purchase contracts between power generation companies and coal suppliers, and the abolition of national guidance of the railway transportation capacity plan, and (2) the cancellation of the dual-track coal pricing system, effective from January 1, 2013. For a detailed discussion of the reform, see “Item 4 Information on the Company – B. Business overview – Pricing policy”. There can be no assurance that such coal pricing reform will not adversely affect our results of operation. In 2013, the PRC Government continued the reform in power industry. In July 2013, China National Energy Administration issued the Notice on Direct Purchases between Power End-users and Power Generation Companies, which officially implemented the direct purchases programs by large end-users. On March 15, 2015, the Opinions of CPC Central Committee and State Council Regarding Further Deepening Reform of the Electricity System was released, according to which the reform will be focused and directed to orderly liberalize the tariff of the competitive markets other than electricity transmission and distribution, gradually allow investment from private investors in power distribution and selling businesses, consistently open the power generation market other than those for non-profit purpose or under regulation, push for independent and regulated operation of the parties involved in electricity transactions, continue the study of regional power grid construction and the transmission and distribution system suitable for China, further strengthen government regulations for enhanced power coordination and planning, and further improve safe and efficient operation of electricity and reliable power supply. These reforms will have a profound impact on the business models of power generation enterprises and may intensify the competition which may adversely affect our business. We are effectively controlled by Huaneng Group and HIPDC, whose interests may differ from those of our other shareholders Huaneng Group, directly or indirectly holds 14.87% of our total outstanding shares, and HIPDC directly holds 35.14% of our total outstanding shares. As Huaneng Group is HIPDC’s parent company, they may exert effective control over us acting in concert. Their interests may sometimes conflict with those of our other minority shareholders. There is no assurance that Huaneng Group and HIPDC will always vote their shares, or direct the directors nominated by them to act in a way that will benefit our other minority shareholders. Disruption in coal supply and its transportation as well as increase in coal price may adversely affect the normal operation of our power plants A substantial majority of our power plants are fueled by coal. Prior to 2013, we obtained coal for our power plants through a combination of purchases pursuant to the key contracts and purchases in the open market. Starting from 2013, the NDRC no longer issues inter-provincial guidance of the railway transportation capacity plan and all key coal purchase contracts between power generation companies and coal suppliers were terminated. The coal price will be determined based on free negotiation between power companies and coal suppliers, and the amount of coal supply will be determined based on free negotiation between power companies and railway authorities, which increases the uncertainty of the coal supply and the coal price and may adversely affect our operations. To date, we have not experienced shutdowns or reduced electricity generation caused by inadequate coal supply or transportation services, but there can be no assurance that, in the event of national coal supply shortfalls, our operations will not be adversely affected. 4 In addition, our results of operations are sensitive to the fluctuation of coal price. In 2014, coal prices experienced significant decrease due to the supply over demand for coal as a result of excessive production capacities, soft economic growth in China, increasingly strict policies on environment protection, and the increased volume of electricity generated through hydropower and the use of ultra-high-voltage grid. After a marked drop during the first half of 2014, coal prices rose slightly during the second half of the year following implementation of a series of policies by the government to improve the financial conditions of coal producers. For example, during 2014, the Bohai-Rim Steam Coal Price Index (“BSPI”) decreased from RMB631/ton in the beginning to RMB528/ton at the end of June, and further dropped to RMB478/ton at the end of August, before rising to RMB525/ton at the end of December. By strengthening our cooperation with key domestic coal mines, and increasing the volume of coal purchased through annual contract arrangements and imported coal, we have been able to partially offset the impact of price fluctuation of domestic coals, and our standard unit coal price decreased by more than RMB 50/ton in 2014. However, there is no assurance that coal prices will not increase in the future, and if the price does increase, there is no assurance that we will be able to adjust our power tariff to pass on the increase in the coal price to our customers. Although the government has established a coal-electricity price linkage mechanism to allow power generation companies to increase their power tariffs to cope with the increase in the coal price, the implementation of the mechanism involves significant uncertainties. For a detailed discussion of the coal-electricity price linkage mechanism, see “Item 4 Information on the Company – B. Business overview – Pricing policy”. Power plant development, acquisition and construction are a complex and time-consuming process, the delay of which may negatively affect the implementation of our growth strategy We develop, construct, manage and operate large power plants. Our success depends upon our ability to secure all required PRC Government approvals, power sales and dispatch agreements, construction contracts, fuel supply and transportation and electricity transmission arrangements. Delay or failure to secure any of these could increase cost or delay or prevent commercial operation of the affected power plant. Although each of our power plants in operation and the power plants under construction received all required PRC Government approvals in a timely fashion, no assurances can be given that all the future projects will receive approvals in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, due to national policies and related regulations promoting environment-friendly energy, the approval requirements and procedures for thermal power plant are becoming increasingly stringent, which may negatively affect the approval process of our new projects and therefore negatively affect the implementation of our growth strategy. We have generally acted as, and intend to continue to act as, the general contractor for the construction of our power plants. As with any major infrastructure construction effort, the construction of a power plant involves many risks, including shortages of equipment, material and labor, labor disturbances, accidents, inclement weather, unforeseen engineering, environmental, geological, delays and other problems and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Construction delays may result in loss of revenues. Failure to complete construction according to specifications may result in liabilities, decrease power plant efficiency, increase operating costs and reduce earnings. Although the construction of each of our power plants was completed on or ahead of schedule and within its budget, no assurance can be given that construction of future projects will be completed on schedule or within budget. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire existing power plants from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other parties. The timing and the likelihood of the consummation of any such acquisitions will depend, among other things, on our ability to obtain financing and relevant PRC Government approvals and to negotiate relevant agreements for terms acceptable to us. Substantial capital is required for investing in or acquiring new power plants and failure to obtain capital on reasonable commercial terms will increase our finance cost and cause delay in our expansion plans An important component of our growth strategy is to develop new power plants and acquire operating power plants and related development rights from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other companies on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing depend on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks or other lenders, investor confidence in us and the continued success of our power plants. Although we have not been materially affected by inflation in the past, there is no assurance that we would not be affected in the future. In 2014 the PBOC maintained the prudence and continuity of its monetary policies by moderate and timely adjustments with the focus towards generally consistent and structurally improved policy implementations. The consecutively lowered lending interest rates in November 2014 and February 2015 means that China’s monetary policies will be liberalized and it is expected by the market that money supply will be more abundant than that in 2013. The domestic capital market is generally balanced and liberalization of interest rates is expected to accelerate. The interest bearing debts of the Company are mostly denominated in RMB. The interest rates applicable to existing RMB loan contracts will be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the adjustment of benchmark lending interest rates published by the PBOC, and the interest rates applicable to new RMB loan contracts will be determined based on the benchmark lending interest rates published by the PBOC. The change of the benchmark lending interest rates published by the PBOC will have direct impact on the borrowing costs of the Company. As a result, we may not be able to carry out our expansion plans due to the failure to obtain financing or increased financing costs. Furthermore, although we have historically been able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, there can be no assurance that financing for future power plant developments and acquisitions will be available on terms acceptable to us or, in the event of an equity offering, that such offering will not result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Operation of power plants involves many risks and we may not have enough insurance to cover the economic losses if any of our power plants’ ordinary operation is interrupted The operation of power plants involves many risks and hazards, including breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, improper installation or operation of equipment, labor disturbances, natural disasters, environmental hazards and industrial accidents. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may adversely affect the profitability of a power plant. 5 Our power plants in the PRC currently maintain insurance coverage that is typical in the electric power industry in the PRC and in amounts that we believe to be adequate. Such insurance, however, may not provide adequate coverage in certain circumstances. In particular, in accordance with industry practice in the PRC, our power plants in the PRC do not generally maintain business interruption insurance, or any third party liability insurance other than that included in construction all-risks insurance or erection all-risks insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury or property or environment damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operation. Although each of our power plants has a good record of safe operation, there is no assurance that the afore-mentioned accidents will not occur in the future. If the PRC Government adopts new and stricter environmental laws and additional capital expenditure is required for complying with such laws, the operation of our power plants may be adversely affected and we may be required to make more investment in compliance with these environmental laws Most of our power plants, being coal-fired power plants, discharge pollutants into the environment. We are subject to central and local government environmental protection laws and regulations, which currently impose base-level discharge fees for various polluting substances and graduated schedules of fees for the discharge of waste substances. The amounts of discharge fees are determined by the local environmental protection authority based on the periodic inspection of the type and volume of pollution discharges. In addition, such environmental protection laws and regulations also set up the goal for the overall control on the discharge volume of key polluting substances. These laws and regulations impose fines for violations of laws, regulations or decrees and provide for the possible closure by the central government or local government of any power plant which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure certain activities causing environmental damage. In 2007, the PRC Government issued additional policies on discharge of polluting substances and on desulphurization for coal-fired generating units. Certain provinces have raised the rates of waste disposal fees since 2008. In 2012, the new and more stringent standards on discharge of polluting substances by thermal power plants promulgated by the PRC Government in 2011 came into effect, which also require newly commenced thermal power plants to equip all units with denitrification facilities and all existing thermal power plants to be modified with denitrification facilities equipped on all units by the end of 2015. In September 2013, the State Council issued the Air Pollution Prevention Action Plan, which sets higher anti­pollution standards. Local governments promulgated relevant local regulations, many of which set even more stringent standards. As of July 1, 2014, the new pollutants emission standards for coal-fired generating plants and dust emission standards in key regions came into effect. In September 2014, the NDRC, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the National Energy Administration jointly issued the 2014-2020 Action Plans for Energy Saving, Emission Reduction and Renovation of Coal-fired Generation Units, imposing stricter requirements for efficient and clean development of coal-fired generating plants. Such stringent standards, together with the increase in the discharge fees, will result in the increases in the environmental protection expenditure and operating costs of power plants and may have adverse impact on our operating results. We attach great importance to the environmental related matters of our existing power plants and our power plants under construction. We have implemented a system that is designed to control pollution caused by our power plants, including the establishment of an environmental protection office at each power plant, adoption of relevant control and evaluation procedures and the installation of certain pollution control equipment. We believe our environmental protection systems and facilities for the power plants are adequate for us to comply with applicable central government and local government environmental protection laws and regulations. However, the PRC Government may impose new, stricter laws and regulations on environmental protection, which may adversely affect our operations. The PRC is a party to the Framework Convention on Climate Change (“Climate Change Convention”), which is intended to limit or capture emissions of “greenhouse” gases, such as carbon dioxide. Ceilings on such emissions could limit the production of electricity from fossil fuels, particularly coal, or increase the costs of such production. At present, ceilings on the emissions of “greenhouse” gases have not been assigned to developing countries under the Climate Change Convention. Therefore, the Climate Change Convention would not have a major effect on us in the short term because the PRC as a developing country is not obligated to reduce its emissions of “greenhouse” gases at present, and the PRC Government has not adopted relevant control standards and policies. If the PRC were to agree to such ceilings, or otherwise reduce its reliance on coal-fired power plants, our business prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, pilot carbon emission trading programs have been conducted in certain regions and are expected to be gradually implemented throughout China. This may also adversely affect our business and financial prospects in the future. Our business benefits from certain PRC Government tax incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, the incentives could adversely affect our operating results Prior to January 1, 2008, according to the relevant income tax law, domestic enterprises were, in general, subject to statutory income tax of 33% (30% enterprise income tax and 3% local income tax). If these enterprises are located in certain specified locations or cities, or are specifically approved by State Administration of Taxation, a lower tax rate would be applied. Effective from January 1, 1999, in accordance with the practice notes on the PRC income tax laws applicable to foreign invested enterprises investing in energy and transportation infrastructure businesses, a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% (after the approval of State Administration of Taxation) was applicable across the country. We applied this rule to all of our wholly owned operating power plants after obtaining the approval of State Administration of Taxation. In addition, certain power plants were exempted from enterprise income tax for two years starting from the first profit-making year, after offsetting all tax losses carried forward from the previous years (at most of five years), followed by a 50% reduction of the applicable tax rate for the next three years. The statutory income tax was assessed individually based on each of their results of operations. 6 On March 16, 2007, the Enterprise Income Tax Law of PRC, or the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, was enacted, and became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Enterprise Income Tax Law imposes a uniform income tax rate of 25% for domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises. Therefore, our power plants subject to a 33% income tax rate prior to January 1, 2008 are subject to a lower tax rate of 25% starting on January 1, 2008. With regard to our power plants entitled to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% prior to January 1, 2008, their effective tax rate gradually increased to 25% within a five-year transition period commencing on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, the effective tax rate of our wholly owned power plants has increased over time. In addition, although our power plants entitled to tax exemption and reduction under the income tax laws and regulations that are effective prior to the New Enterprise Income Tax Law will continue to enjoy such preferential treatments until the expiration of the same, newly established power plants will not be able to benefit from such tax incentives, unless they can satisfy specific qualifications, if any, provided by then effective laws and regulations on preferential tax treatment. The increase of applicable income tax rate and elimination of the preferential tax treatment with regard to certain of our power plants may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the tax benefits currently available to us. In addition, according to the New Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, any dividends derived from the distributable profits accumulated from January 1, 2008 and paid to the shareholders who are non-resident enterprises in the PRC will be subject to the PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10%. The withholding tax will be exempted if such dividends are derived from the distributable profits accumulated before January 1, 2008. Under a notice issued by the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC on November 6, 2008, we are required to withhold PRC income tax at the rate of 10% on annual dividends paid for 2008 and later years payable to our H Share investors who are non-resident enterprises. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment As a power producer operating mainly in China, we collect most of our revenues in Renminbi and have to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies to (i) repay some of our borrowings which are denominated in foreign currencies, (ii) purchase foreign made equipment and parts for repairs and maintenance, (iii) purchase fuel from overseas suppliers, and (iv) pay out dividend to our overseas shareholders. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a floating exchange rate system to allow the value of Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of foreign currencies. Renminbi appreciated by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC decided to further promote the reform of the Renminbi exchange rate formation mechanism, and improve the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Since June 2010, Renminbi has regained steady appreciation against the U.S. dollar, which was reversed by slight depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar at the turn to and early 2014. On March 15, 2014, the PBOC announced to further widen Remninbi’s daily trading band against U.S. dollar from 1% to 2% on either side of the daily reference rate, allowing for greater fluctuations of the exchange rate. However, it is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC Government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in further fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a devaluation of Renminbi in the future. If there is such devaluation, our debt servicing cost will increase and the return to our overseas investors may decrease. Our revenues from SinoSing Power Pte. Ltd. (“SinoSing Power”) and its subsidiaries are collected in Singapore dollars. However, commencing from 2008, the operating results of SinoSing Power and its subsidiaries were consolidated into our financial statements, which use Renminbi as the presentation currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations between Renminbi and the Singapore dollar. Appreciation of Renminbi against the Singapore dollar may cause a foreign exchange loss upon conversion of SinoSing Power and its subsidiaries’ operating results denominated in Singapore dollars into Renminbi, which may have adverse impact on our operation results. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Auditors of companies that are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the People’s Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. 7 This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. The Chinese member firm of the KPMG network, of which our independent registered public accounting firm is also a member, may be temporarily suspended from practicing before the SEC. If a delay in completion of our audit process occurs as a result, we could be unable to timely file certain reports with the SEC, which may lead to the delisting of our stock On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, including KPMG network, from, among other things, practicing before the SEC for six months. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure; undertakings to make a payment to the SEC; procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the US SEC; and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to. Our independent registered public accounting firm currently relies on the Chinese member firm of the KPMG network for assistance in completing the audit work associated with our operations in China. If the settlement terms are not adhered to, Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms may be suspended from practicing before the SEC which could in turn delay the timely filing of our financial statements with the SEC. In addition, it could be difficult for us to timely identify and engage another qualified independent auditor. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may result in NYSE initiating delisting procedures, which could adversely harm our reputation and have other material adverse effects on our overall growth and prospect. Forward-looking information may prove inaccurate This document contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. When used in this document, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “going forward” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward-looking statement. Such statements reflect the current views of our management with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors described in this document. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that we will not be passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for any taxable year, which could subject United States investors in the ADSs or our H shares to significant adverse United States income tax consequences. We will be a “passive foreign investment company,” or “PFIC,” if, in the case of any particular taxable year, either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such year consists of certain types of “passive” income or (b) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets (as determined on the basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income (the “asset test”). For United States federal income tax purposes, and based upon our current and expected income and assets, we do not presently expect to be a PFIC for the current taxable year or the foreseeable future. While we do not expect to become a PFIC, because the value of our assets for purposes of the asset test may be determined by reference to the market price of the ADSs, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. The determination of whether we will be or become a PFIC will also depend, in part, on the composition of our income and assets. Under circumstances where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of being a PFIC may substantially increase. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States federal income tax considerations”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or H shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or H shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules and such holders may be subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Further, if we are a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. holder holds the ADSs or our H shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. holder holds the ADSs or our H shares. For more information see “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 8 Risks relating to doing business in the PRC China’s economic, political and social conditions as well as government policies could significantly affect our business As of December 31, 2014, the majority of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. After multiple years of strenuous and sustained economic restructuring reforms, China has become a leading player in the global economy and a major contributing force to the economic revival and growth worldwide. The PRC Government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the economy of China and a higher level of autonomy for the private sector. Some of these measures will benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us for a short term. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in taxation, changes in power tariff for our power plants, changes in the usage and costs of State-controlled transportation services, and changes in State policies affecting the power industry. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves significant uncertainties The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited value as precedents. We are subject to certain PRC regulations governing PRC companies that are listed overseas. These regulations contain certain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of these PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC regulatory agencies are intensifying their efforts to protect interests of shareholders. We are listed in three exchanges. Given that each exchange and jurisdiction has different rules for shareholder protection, it is our policy to adopt the strictest standards of these listing rules. Some of these standards are incorporated in our articles of association and bylaws with the view to providing most protection for the interests of our shareholders. Risks relating to our operations in Singapore Our operations in Singapore are subject to a number of risks, including, among others, risks relating to electricity pricing, dispatching, fuel supply, project development, capital expenditure, environmental regulations, government policies, and Singapore’s economic, political and social conditions. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuation in demand and intensified competition may adversely affect Tuas Power’s business and results of operations. Our operations in Singapore depend on market demand and are subject to competition. Overall power system demand grew by more than 3% in 2014 over 2013. The future growth is highly dependent on sustained recovery in the Singapore and global economies. The liberalization of Singapore’s power market and the further deregulation of its power industry have resulted in more intense competition among the power generation companies in Singapore. Tuas Power Group, or Tuas Power, one of our wholly owned business units, is one of the three largest power generation companies in Singapore. If Tuas Power is unable to compete successfully against other power generation companies in Singapore, its business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Existing incumbents, including Tuas Power Generation Pte Ltd (“TPG”), and new entrants have embarked on repowering and new-build capacities in line with the planned development of Singapore’s first Liquefied Natural Gas (“LNG”) Regasification Terminal. At the end of 2014, 2,000MW of new gas-fired generating capacity using LNG were competing in the Singapore market. Another 400MW of new capacity is under construction and is expected to come online before the end of the next year. Following the introduction of LNG into the Singapore Market and the additional generating capacities facilitated by the Energy Market Authortiy’s (the “EMA”) LNG Vesting Scheme, the electricity market has turned from a gas-constrained market in the last few years to one that is oversupplied. This is expected to have negative impact on prices until the excess capacity is absorbed by increase in demand. TP Utilities Pte Ltd (“TPU”), an entity in Tuas Power Group, sells utilities, such as steam, industrial water and demineralized water to industrial customers for their direct consumption. The timing for those potential investors to site their premises is uncertain due to economic situations. The demand of the utilities by these customers may vary as well. Therefore, it is necessary for TPU to understand the customers’ demand and timing to arrive at a demand projection. The facilities will be developed in stages and/or in modules to provide sufficient capacity matching the demand. Customers are required to pay minimum capacity payment charges to mitigate the demand risk. 9 Regulatory changes of the vesting regime in Singapore could expose Tuas Power to electricity price volatility and adversely affect its business and results of operations Tuas Power derives its revenue mainly from sale of electricity to the National Electricity Market of Singapore (the “NEMS”) through a bidding process and vesting contracts under which a significant portion of power sales is predetermined by the EMA. The vesting contract regime in Singapore is targeted at mitigation of market power in the wholesale electricity spot market. The regime achieves this objective by assigning a quantity of vesting contracts to generating companies, thereby limiting their incentives to exercise whatever level of market power they may possess. Vesting contracts are a form of bilateral contract imposed/vested on the major power generation companies in Singapore. Vesting contract price is set by the EMA, which is Singapore’s power market regulator. Vesting contract price is set at the long run marginal cost of the most efficient base-loaded technology plant employed in Singapore and is reviewed every two years. On a quarterly basis, the EMA allows for the vesting contract price to be adjusted to account for inflation and changes in fuel prices. Such a mechanism helps protect the profit margins of the power generating companies in the Singapore market, such as Tuas Power, to a large degree. The quantity of each power generation company’s capacity reserved for vesting contracts depends on the proportion of such power generation company’s capacity to the total capacity in the NEMS system. The contract quantity and price are recalculated every three months. For the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, power sold through vesting contracts represented approximately 42% of Tuas Power’s total power sold. As an important governmental policy in Singapore’s power market, vesting contracts may continue as long as the EMA considers that high market concentration persists and that power generation companies may potentially exercise their market power. The biennial review carried out in 2014 saw a phased reduction of vesting contract levels over a two-year period from an immediate level of 30% for first half 2015 and 25% for second half 2015 before lowing to 20% for 2016. The fuel cost of Tuas Power is exposed to volatility of international fuel price and foreign currency risk The fuel for Tuas Power consists of natural gas, coal, biomass, fuel oil and diesel oil. Since the procurement price of natural gas is closely linked to oil price and the procurement price of coal and biomass is linked to a coal index, the fuel cost of Tuas Power is exposed to the volatility of international oil and coal prices. In addition, the commitments for the purchase of fuel are denominated in U.S. dollars, which further exposes Tuas Power to foreign currency risk. Any increase in fuel price and/or appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Singapore dollar will translate into an increase in fuel cost for Tuas Power. Part of this increase can be passed through electricity sale contracts and utilities sale contracts, while fuel and foreign exchange hedging strategies done appropriately will mitigate the impact of such increase. No assurance can be given that such increase will not adversely affect results of its operation. Tuas Power is highly dependent upon the import of gas via pipelines from Indonesia. Any disruption of such supply would impact the normal operation of Tuas Power significantly. This risk has been mitigated through Tuas Power’s contract to buy LNG for its incremental needs, although there is no assurance that, in the event of fuel supply shortfall, Tuas Power’s operations will not be adversely affected. 