D. Risk factors Risks relating to our business and the PRC's power industry Government regulation of on-grid power tariffs and other aspects of the power industry may adversely affect our business Similar to electric power companies in other countries, we are subject to governmental and electric grid regulations in virtually all aspects of our operations, including the amount and timing of electricity generations, the setting of on-grid tariffs, the performance of scheduled maintenance and compliance with power grid control and dispatch directives and environment protection. There can be no assurance that these regulations will not change in the future in a manner which could adversely affect our business. The on-grid tariffs for our planned output are subject to a review and approval process involving the NDRC and the relevant provincial government. Prior to April 2001, the on-grid tariffs of our planned output were designed to enable us to recover all operating and debt servicing costs and to earn a fixed rate of return. Since April 2001, however, the PRC government has started to gradually implement a new on-grid tariff-setting mechanism based on the operating terms of power plants as well as the average costs of comparable power plants. Pursuant to the NDRC circular issued in June 2004, the on-grid tariffs for our newly built power generating units commencing operation from June 2004 have been set on the basis of the average cost of comparable units adding tax and reasonable return in the regional grid. Any future reductions in our tariffs, or our inability to raise tariffs (for example, to cover any increased costs we may have to incur) as a result of the new on-grid tariff-setting mechanism, may adversely affect our revenue and profit. In addition, the PRC government started in 1999 to experiment with a program to effect power sales through competitive bidding in some of the provinces where we operate our power plants. The on-grid tariffs for power sold through competitive bidding are generally lower than the pre-approved on-grid tariffs for planned output. Although the power sales through competitive bidding in the last few years constituted only a small fraction of our total output, the PRC government is in the process of gradually expanding the program with a view to create a market-oriented electric power industry. Any increased power sales through competitive bidding may reduce our on-grid tariffs and adversely affect our revenue and profits. The on-grid tariff-setting mechanism is evolving with the reforming of the PRC electric power industry. There is no assurance that it will not change in a manner which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. See “Item 4 Information of the Company – B Business Overview – Pricing Policy”. If our power plants receive less dispatching than planned generation, the power plants will sell less electricity than planned Our profitability depends, in part, upon each of our power plants generating electricity at a level sufficient to meet or exceed the planned generation, which in turn will be subject to local demand for electric power and dispatching to the grids by the dispatch centres of the local grid companies. The dispatch of electric power generated by a power plant is controlled by the dispatch centre of the applicable grid companies pursuant to a dispatch agreement with us and to governmental dispatch regulations. In each of the markets we operate, we compete against other power plants for power sales. No assurance can be given that the dispatch centres will dispatch the full amount of the planned generation of our power plants. A reduction by the dispatch centre in the amount of electric power dispatched relative to a power plant's planned generation could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our operations. However, we have not encountered any such event in the past. In August 2007, General Office of the State Council issued a notice, providing that the energy saving and electricity dispatch shall consolidate with the development of the power market, which optimize the power market. The State Electricity Regulatory Commission (“SERC”) is conducting research on how to effectively combine the energy saving and electricity dispatch with the development of the power market, and the detailed measures are still in the process of drafting. In October 2008, the SERC approved the trial implementation of the policy of energy saving and electricity dispatch in certain pilot provinces. There can be no assurance that such implementation will not results in any decrease in the amount of the power dispatched of any of our power plants. The power industry reform may affect our business 3 PRC government in 2002 announced and started to implement measures to further reform the power industry, with the ultimate goal to create a more open and fair power market. As part of the reform, five power generating companies, including Huaneng Group, were created or restructured to take over all the power generation assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. In addition, two grid companies were created to take over the power transmission and distribution assets originally belonging to the State Power Corporation of China. An independent power supervisory commission, the SERC, was created to regulate the power industry. It is uncertain how these reform measures and any further reforms are going to be implemented and how they will impact our business. On April 6, 2007, the PRC State Council issued the Opinions on Implementing Further Reform in Power Industry during the “Eleventh Five-Year Plan” period, or the Implementing Opinions, which confirm the direction of reform and present further guidance. According to the Implementing Opinions, the government encourages environment protection and renovation and replacement of outdated generating units. The further reform will not only bring opportunities to power industry but also intensify the competition which may affect our business. We are effectively controlled by Huaneng Group and HIPDC, whose interests may differ from those of our other shareholders Huaneng Group, directly or through its wholly-owned subsidiary, and HIPDC directly hold 8.92% and 42.03% of our total outstanding shares respectively. As Huaneng Group is HIPDC’s parent company, they may exert effective control over us in concert. Their interests may sometimes conflict with those of our other minority shareholders. There is no assurance that Huaneng Group and HIPDC will always vote their shares, or direct the directors nominated by them to act in a way that will benefit our other minority shareholders. Disruption in coal supply and its transportation as well as increase in coal price may adversely affect the normal operation of our power plants A substantial majority of our power plants are fueled by coal. We have obtained coal for our power plants through a combination of purchases pursuant to the key contracts and purchases in the open market. We have not experienced shutdowns or reduced electricity generation caused by inadequate coal supply or transportation services, there can be no assurance that, in the event of national coal supply shortfalls, our operations will not be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operation are sensitive to the fluctuation of coal price. Since 2003, the continuous increase of coal price has increased our costs substantially and caused our profits to decline. Although the government has established a coal-electricity price linkage mechanism to allow power generating companies to increase their power tariffs to respond to the increase of coal price, the implementation of the mechanism involves significant uncertainties. There is no assurance that we will be able to adjust our power tariff to pass on the increase of coal price to our customers. For a detailed discussion of the coal-electricity price linkage mechanism, see “Item 4 Information of the Company-B Business Overview – Pricing Policy”. Primarily due to the significant increase of the coal price in 2008, our fuel cost increased significantly and we recorded a loss attributable to equity holders of the Company of RMB 3.938 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to a profit attributable to equity holders of the Company of RMB6.161 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of April 22, 2009, due to the existence of price discrepancy between the suppliers and the customers, there was no agreement reached for the key contracts, which increases the uncertainty of the coal supply and the coal price and may adversely affect our operations. Power plant development, acquisition and construction are a complex and time-consuming process, the delay of which may negatively affect the implementation of our growth strategy We develop, construct, manage and operate large power plants; success depends upon our ability to secure all required PRC Government approvals, power sales and dispatch agreements, construction contracts, fuel supply and transportation and electricity transmission arrangements. Delay or failure to secure any of these could increase cost or delay or prevent commercial operation of the affected power plant. Although each of our power plants in operation and the power plants under construction received all required PRC Government approvals in a timely fashion, no assurances can be given that all the future projects will receive approvals in a timely fashion or at all. We have generally acted as, and intend to continue to act as, the general contractor for the construction of our power plants. As with any major infrastructure construction effort, the construction of a power plant involves many risks, including shortages of equipment, material and labor, labor disturbances, accidents, inclement weather, unforeseen engineering, environmental, geological, delays and other problems and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could give rise to delays or cost overruns. Construction delays may result in loss of revenues. Failure to complete construction according to specifications may result in liabilities, 4 decrease power plant efficiency, increase operating costs and reduce earnings. Although the construction of each of our power plants was completed on or ahead of schedule and within its budget, no assurance can be given that construction of future projects will be completed on schedule or within budget. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire existing power plants from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other parties. The timing and the likelihood of the consummation of any such acquisitions will depend, among other things, on our ability to obtain financing and relevant PRC Government approvals and to negotiate relevant agreements for terms acceptable to us. Substantial capital is required for investing in or acquiring new power plants and failure to obtain capital on reasonable commercial terms will increase our finance cost and cause delay in our expansion plans An important component of our growth strategy is to develop new power plants and acquire operating power plants and related development rights from HIPDC, Huaneng Group or other companies on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing depend on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks or other lenders, investor confidence in us and the continued success of our power plants. The People’s Republic of China has reduced RMB benchmark lending interest rates for five consecutive times from September to the end of 2008 to counteract the impact of international financial crisis on China’s economy. Chinese government is expected to implement appropriately liberated monetary policies during 2009, thus creating a favorable environment for the Company to control financing costs. However, there is no assurance that the lending interest rates would not be raised in the future. Although we have historically been able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us, there can be no assurance that financing for future power plant developments and acquisitions will be available on terms acceptable to us or, in the event of an equity offering, that such offering will not result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Operation of power plants involves many risks and we may not have enough insurance to cover the economic losses if any of our power plants’ ordinary operation is interrupted The operation of power plants involves many risks and hazards, including breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, improper installation or operation of equipment, labor disturbances, natural disasters, environmental hazards and industrial accidents. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may adversely affect the profitability of a power plant. Our power plants in the PRC currently maintain insurance coverage that is typical in the electric power industry in the PRC and in amounts that we believe to be adequate. Such insurance, however, may not provide adequate coverage in certain circumstances. In particular, in accordance with industry practice in the PRC, our power plants in the PRC do not generally maintain business interruption insurance, or any of third party liability insurance other than that included in construction all risks insurance or erection all risks insurance to cover claims in respect of bodily injury or property or environment damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operation. Although each of our power plants has a good record of safe operation, there is no assurance that the afore-mentioned accidents will not occur in the future. If the PRC government adopts new and stricter environmental laws and additional capital expenditure is required for complying with such laws, the operation of our power plants may be adversely affected and we may be required to make more investment in compliance with these environmental laws Our power plants, like all coal-fired power plants, discharge pollutants into the environment. We are subject to central and local government environmental protection laws and regulations, which currently impose base-level discharge fees for various polluting substances and graduated schedules of fees for the discharge of waste substances. These laws and regulations impose fines for violations of laws, regulations or decrees and provide for the possible closure by the central government or local government of any power plant which fails to comply with orders requiring it to cease or cure certain activities causing environmental damage. In 2007, the PRC government issued additional policies on discharge of polluting substances and on desulphurization for coal-fired generating units. Certain provinces have raised the rates of waste disposal fees in 2008 and such rates will be increased in all provinces of China by the end of 2009. Such increases in the discharge fees and in the environmental protection expenditure will lead to an increase of the operating costs of power plants like ours and may have adverse impact on our operating results. We attach great importance to the environmental related matters of our existing power plants and our power plants under construction. We have implemented a system that is designed to control pollution caused by our power plants, including the establishment of an environmental protection office at each power plant, adoption of relevant control and evaluation procedures and the installation of certain pollution control 5 equipment. We believe our environmental protection systems and facilities for the power plants are adequate for us to comply with applicable central government and local government environmental protection laws and regulations. The PRC Government may impose new, stricter laws and regulations which would require additional expenditure on environmental protection. The PRC is a party to the Framework Convention on Climate Change ("Climate Change Convention"), which is intended to limit or capture emissions of "greenhouse" gases, such as carbon dioxide. Ceilings on such emissions could limit the production of electricity from fossil fuels, particularly coal, or increase the costs of such production. At present, ceilings on the emissions of "greenhouse" gases have not been assigned to developing countries under the Climate Change Convention. Therefore, the Climate Change Convention would not have a major effect on the Company in the short-term because the PRC as a developing country is not obligated to reduce its emissions of “greenhouse” gases at present, and the PRC government has not adopted relevant control standards and policies. If the PRC were to agree to such ceilings, or otherwise reduce its reliance on coal-fired power plants, our business prospects could be adversely affected. Our business benefits from certain PRC government tax incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, the incentives could adversely affect our operating results Prior to January 1, 2008, according to the relevant income tax law, foreign invested enterprises were, in general, subject to statutory income tax of 33% (30% enterprise income tax and 3% local income tax). If these enterprises are located in certain specified locations or cities, or are specifically approved by State Tax Bureau, a lower tax rate would be applied. Effective from January 1, 1999, in accordance with the practice notes on the PRC income tax laws applicable to foreign invested enterprises investing in energy and transportation infrastructure businesses, a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% (after the approval of State Tax Bureau) was applicable across the country. We applied this rule to all of our wholly owned operating power plants after obtaining the approval of State Tax Bureau. In addition, certain power plants were exempted from enterprise income tax for two years starting from the first profit-making year, after offsetting all tax losses carried forward from the previous years (at most of five years), followed by a 50% reduction of the applicable tax rate for the next three years. The statutory income tax was assessed individually based on each of their results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the Enterprise Income Tax Law of PRC, or the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, was enacted, and became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Enterprise Income Tax Law imposes a uniform income tax rate of 25% for domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises. Therefore, our power plants subject to a 33% income tax rate prior to January 1, 2008 are subject to a lower tax rate of 25% starting on January 1, 2008. With regard to our power plants entitled to a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15% prior to January 1, 2008, their effective tax rate is being gradually increased to 25% within a five-year transition period commencing on January 1, 2008. Accordingly, the effective tax rate of our wholly-owned power plants will increase over time. In addition, although our power plants currently entitled to tax exemption and reduction under the current income tax laws and regulations will continue to enjoy such preferential treatments until the expiration of the same, newly established power plants will not be able to benefit from such tax incentives, unless they can satisfy specific qualifications, if any, provided by then effective laws and regulations on preferential tax treatment. The increase of applicable income tax rate and elimination of the preferential tax treatment with regard to certain of our power plants may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the tax benefits currently available to us. In addition, according to the New Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, any dividends derived from the distributable profits accumulated from January 1, 2008 and are paid to the shareholders who are non-resident enterprises in the PRC will be subject to the PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10%. The withholding tax will be exempted if such dividends are derived from the distributable profits accumulated before January 1, 2008. Under a notice issued by the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC on November 6, 2008, we are required to withhold PRC income tax at the rate of 10% on annual dividends paid for 2008 and later years payable to our H Share investors who are non-resident enterprises. Regarding our proposed cash dividends to overseas investors relating to the year of 2008, we are currently applying for an exemption of withholding tax because such dividends are derived from the distributable profits accumulated before January 1, 2008. If the exemption application is not approved by the tax authority, the investors of our American Depositary Shares representing our H Shares will be subject to such withholding of the PRC income tax at the rate of 10%. If there is a devaluation of Renminbi or Singapore dollar, our debt burden will increase and the dividend return to our overseas shareholders may decrease As a power producer operating mainly in China, we collect our revenues in Renminbi and have to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies to (i) repay some of our borrowings which are denominated in foreign 6 currencies, (ii) purchase foreign made equipment and parts for repairs and maintenance, and (iii) pay out dividend to our overseas shareholders. The value of the Renminbi against the US dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, has historically been set by the People's Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the US dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted initially in an approximately 2.0% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the US dollar. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the US dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the US dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the US dollar. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a devaluation of Renminbi in the future. If there is such devaluation, our debt servicing cost will increase and the return to our overseas investors may decrease. Our revenues from SinoSing Power Pte. Ltd. (“SinoSing Power”) and its subsidiary, Tuas Power Ltd. (“Tuas Power”), are collected in Singapore dollar. The foreign currency borrowings of SinoSing Power and Tuas Power are denominated in US dollar. The value of Singapore dollar against US dollar has fluctuated along with the international financial market, which exposes SinoSing Power and Tuas Power to exchange rate risk. Forward-looking information may prove inaccurate This document contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "going forward" and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward-looking statement. Such statements reflect the current views of our management with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors described in this document. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Risks relating to the PRC China's economic, political and social conditions as well as government policies could significantly affect our business As of December 31, 2008, the majority of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, economy growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government at various levels, in recent years the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the economy of China and a high level of management autonomy. Some of these measures will benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in taxation, changes in power tariff for our power plants, changes in the usage and costs of State controlled transportation services, and changes in State policies affecting the power industry. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves significant uncertainties The PRC legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People's Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. In addition, as the PRC legal system develops, we cannot assure that changes in such 7 laws and regulations, and their interpretation or their enforcement will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We are subject to certain PRC regulations governing PRC companies that are listed overseas. These regulations contain certain provisions that are required to be included in the articles of association of these PRC companies and are intended to regulate the internal affairs of these companies. The PRC Company Law and these regulations, in general, and the provisions for protection of shareholders' rights and access to information, in particular, are less developed than those applicable to companies incorporated in Hong Kong, the US, the UK and other developed countries or regions. Such limited investor protections are compensated for, to a certain extent, by the Mandatory Provisions for the Articles of Association of Companies to be Listed Overseas and certain additional requirements that are imposed by the Listing Rules of The Hong Kong Stock Exchange with a view to reduce the magnitude of differences between the Hong Kong Company Law and PRC Company Law. The articles of association of all PRC companies listed in Hong Kong must incorporate such Mandatory Provisions and these additional requirements. Although our Articles of Association have incorporated such provisions and requirements, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will enjoy protections to which they may be entitled in other jurisdictions. Risks relating to our operations in Singapore Tuas Power Ltd. (“Tuas Power”), one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, operates in Singapore. Tuas Power is a power generating company incorporated in Singapore which is engaged in the business of generation, wholesale and retail of power. With two 600 MW oil-fired steam generating units and four 367.5 MW gas-fired combined cycle generating units, Tuas Power has a total generating capacity of 2,670 MW. The total assets and revenue of Tuas Power represented approximately 14% and 15%, respectively, of our total assets and revenue as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008. The operations of Tuas Power are subject to a number of risks, including, among others, risks relating to electricity pricing, dispatching, fuel supply, project development, capital expenditure, environmental regulations, government policies, and Singapore’s economic, political and social conditions. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect the business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations of Tuas Power. Decrease in market demand and intensified competition may adversely affect Tuas Power’s business and results of operations. Power demand in Singapore is dependent upon the economic development of Singapore. Due to the impact of the current global financial crisis and economic downturn, Singapore’s economy is projected to have a negative growth in 2009, and the power demand is expected to decrease. Significant and sustained adverse changes in Singapore’s economy and a material reduction in power demand in Singapore may adversely affect Tuas Power’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The Singapore electricity industry had traditionally been vertically integrated and owned by the government. Since 1995, much progress has been made to liberalize the electricity industry for greater efficiency and innovation. Steps taken to liberalize the power industry include corporatization of the Public Utilities Board (“PUB”) in 1995, establishment of Singapore Electricity Pool in 1998, formation of Energy Market Authority (“EMA”) in 2001, commencement of operation of New Electricity Market of Singapore (“NEMS”) in 2003, and respective divestment of three major generating companies (Tuas Power, PowerSenoko, PowerSeraya) by Temasek Holdings in 2008 and 2009. The liberalization of Singapore’s power market and the further deregulation of its power industry have resulted in more intense competition among the power generating companies in Singapore. Tuas Power is one of the three largest power generating companies in Singapore. If Tuas Power is unable to compete successfully against other power generating companies in Singapore, its business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Decrease in the quantity of generating capacity covered by Tuas Power’s vesting contracts may further expose Tuas Power to electricity price volatility and adversely affect its business and results of operations. Tuas Power derives its revenue mainly from sale of electricity to the National Electricity Market of Singapore (the “NEMS”) through bidding process and vesting contracts. Vesting contracts are a form of bilateral contract imposed/vested on the major power generating companies in Singapore. Vesting contract price is set by the Energy Market Authority (the “EMA”), which is Singapore’s power market regulator, at the long run marginal cost and is adjusted by the EMA on a periodical basis for changes in the long run marginal cost and on a quarterly basis for inflation and changes in fuel prices. Such mechanism helps protect the profit margins of the power generating companies in the Singapore market such as Tuas Power to a large degree. The 8 quantity of each generating company’s capacity covered by vesting contracts depends on the proportion of such generating company’s capacity to total capacity in the NEMS system. The contract quantity and price are recalculated every three months. For the period from March 25, 2008 to December 31, 2008, power sold through vesting contracts represented approximately 59% of Tuas Power's total power sold. As an important governmental policy in Singapore’s power market, vesting contracts will continue as long as the EMA considers that high market concentration persists. Although it is expected that it will take at least eight to ten years for market concentration to be substantially diluted, the Singapore government recently planned to decrease the quantities of capacity covered by vesting contracts. The timetable and details for such plan remain uncertain and Tuas Power is actively communicating with the EMA and requesting a relatively stable policy. Any significant decrease in the quantity of capacity covered by Tuas Power’s vesting contracts will further expose Tuas Power to electricity price volatility and may have an adverse impact on its business and results of operations. The fuel cost of Tuas Power is exposed to the volatility of international fuel price and foreign currency risk. The fuel for Tuas Power consists of oil and gas. Since the procurement price of gas is closely linked to oil price, the fuel cost of Tuas Power is exposed to the volatility of international oil price. In addition, the commitments for the purchase of fuel are denominated in US dollars, which further exposes Tuas Power to foreign currency risk. The increase in fuel price and the appreciation of US dollars against Singapore dollar would increase the fuel cost of Tuas Power and adversely affects its results of operations. The integration of Tuas Power and implementation of internal controls and procedures in Tuas Power may adversely affect Tuas Power’s business and results of operations. We completed the acquisition of Tuas Power in June 2008 and are in the process of implementing our internal controls and procedures in Tuas Power. The designing, implementing, testing and auditing of internal controls with respect to an acquired entity which had its own management and control systems prior to the acquisition are costly and risk-bearing. We are also subject to a number of special financial and business risks relating to the integration after the completion of acquisition, including, among others, diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources, increased costs to improve our coordinated managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems and additional conflicts of interest. In addition, we may be unable to manage an acquired entity profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Any of these factors may adversely affect our business and results of operations. ITEM 