Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified by the following factors. This information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K.Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruptions of financial markets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our customers, which in turn is affected by global economic conditions and market factors impacting the industries and markets that they serve. Certain global economies and markets continue to experience significant uncertainty and volatility. Adverse economic conditions or lack of liquidity in various markets, particularly in North America, may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Economic and financial market conditions also affect the availability of financing for projects and for our customers' capital or other expenditures, which can result in project delays or cancellations and thus affect demand for our products. There can be no assurance that any governmental responses to economic conditions or disruptions in the financial markets ultimately will stabilize the markets or increase our customers' liquidity or the availability of credit to our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so. The global economic and financial environment also may affect our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and there can be no assurance that global economic and market conditions will not adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial position in the future. Fluctuations of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could negatively affect our business, financial results and liquidity.Certain events or conditions could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate a number of facilities and we coordinate company activities, including information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through our headquarters operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain existing systems and implement new technology, which includes allocating sufficient resources to periodically upgrade our information technology systems, and to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against both manmade and natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, cyber-attacks, and other events. Conversions to new information technology systems may result in cost overruns, delays or business interruptions. If our information technology systems are disrupted, become obsolete or do not adequately support our strategic, operational or compliance needs, it could result in competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our financial results and business operations, including our ability to process orders, receive and ship products, maintain inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses. Because we rely heavily on information technology both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure in order to achieve our objectives, we may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of cyber-attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that access our systems. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, an attack on our enterprise information technology system could result in theft or disclosure of our proprietary or confidential information or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. Such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, and cause us to incur legal liability and costs, which could be significant, to address and remediate such events and related security concerns. We also depend on accessible office facilities, distribution centers and information technology data centers for our operations to function properly. An interruption of operations at any of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on the operations of branches served by the affected distribution center. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they typically can be mitigated, they cannot be eliminated. We seek to mitigate our exposures to disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design the configuration of our facilities to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties and we evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us.10Table of ContentsLoss of key suppliers, product cost fluctuations, lack of product availability or inefficient supply chain operations could decrease sales and earnings.Most of our agreements with suppliers are terminable by either party on 60 days' notice or less. Our ten largest suppliers in 2013 accounted for approximately 31% of our purchases for the period. Our largest supplier in 2013 was Eaton Corporation accounting for approximately 12% of our purchases. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from any of these suppliers, a supplier's change in sales strategy to rely less on distribution channels, or the loss of key preferred supplier agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, effects of economic or financial market conditions on a supplier's operations, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. In addition, certain of our products, such as wire and conduit, are commodity-price-based products and may be subject to significant price fluctuations which are beyond our control. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that particular products or product lines will be available to us, or available in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand. Such limited product access could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. The profitability of our business is also dependent upon the efficiency of our supply chain. An inefficient or ineffective supply chain strategy or operations could increase operational costs, reduce profit margins and adversely affect our business.Expansion into new business activities, industries, product lines or geographic areas could subject the company to increased costs and risks and may not achieve the intended results.Engaging in or significantly expanding business activities in product sourcing, sales and services could subject the company to unexpected costs and risks. Such activities could subject us to increased operating costs, product liability, regulatory requirements and reputational risks. Our expansion into new and existing markets, including manufacturing related or regulated businesses, may present competitive, distribution and regulatory challenges that differ from current ones. We may be less familiar with the target customers and may face different or additional risks, as well as increased or unexpected costs, compared to existing operations. Growth into new markets may also bring us into direct competition with companies with whom we have little or no past experience as competitors. To the extent we are reliant upon expansion into new geographic, industry and product markets for growth and do not meet the new challenges posed by such expansion, our future sales growth could be negatively impacted, our operating costs could increase, and our business operations and financial results could be negatively affected.An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete directly with global, national, regional and local providers of our products and services. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater resources than us. Competition is primarily focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. Other sources of competition are buying groups formed by smaller distributors to increase purchasing power and provide some cooperative marketing capability as well as e-commerce companies. Existing or future competitors may seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, and we may be required to lower our prices or may lose business, which could adversely affect our financial results. Also, to the extent that we do not meet changing customer preferences or demands or to the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with private label products or otherwise, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. In addition, it is possible that competitive pressures resulting from industry consolidation could affect our growth and profit margins.With the acquisition of EECOL Electric Corporation, our risk profile may differ materially from prior years as a result of increased levels of international operations, which could materially change our results of operations. On December 14, 2012 we completed our largest acquisition to date when we acquired EECOL Electric Corporation for approximately $1.1 billion. EECOL is headquartered in Calgary, Alberta with approximately 57 locations throughout Canada and approximately 20 locations in South America. While there are risks associated with acquisitions generally, including integration risks, there are additional risks more specifically associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from import and export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, material developments in political, regulatory or economic conditions impacting those operations and various environmental and climatic conditions in particular areas of the world. Following this acquisition, a greater percentage of our revenues and expenses arise from international sources that may be subject to these risks from time to time. 11Table of ContentsAcquisitions that we may undertake would involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result.We have expanded our operations through organic growth and selected acquisitions of businesses and assets and may seek to do so in the future. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, including: problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; the potential loss of key employees of an acquired business; the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale; and expansion into new countries or geographic markets where we may be less familiar with operating requirements, target customers and regulatory compliance. Any one or more of these factors could increase our costs or cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of business or assets.We must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends on hiring, retaining and motivating key employees, including executive, managerial, sales, technical, marketing and support personnel. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel. In addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against us. The loss of key personnel or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel could disrupt or adversely affect our business, its sales and results of operations. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover, which may also result in loss of significant customer business, or increased employee benefit costs.We are subject to costs and risks associated with laws and regulations affecting our business, as well as litigation for product liability or other matters affecting our business. The complex legal and regulatory environment exposes us to compliance costs and risks, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings, that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events. They include tax laws and regulations, import and export laws and regulations, government contracting laws and regulations, labor and employment laws and regulations, product safety, occupational safety and health laws and regulations, securities and exchange laws and regulations (and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and environmental laws and regulations. In addition, proposed laws and regulations in these and other areas, such as healthcare, employment, or legal matters could affect the cost of our business operations. From time to time we are involved in legal proceedings which may relate to, for example, product liability, labor and employment (including wage and hour), tax, import and export compliance, worker health and safety, general commercial and securities matters. While we believe that the outcome of any pending matter is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity, additional legal proceedings may arise in the future and the outcome of any legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take actions which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Because we conduct business in many countries, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, we are required to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each jurisdiction in which we operate and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Due to ambiguity of tax laws in certain of these jurisdictions and the subjective nature of factual determinations, the respective taxing authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. While we regularly evaluate the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes could adversely affect our results of operations.Our outstanding indebtedness requires debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations and could limit our growth and impose restrictions on our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had $1,662.4 million of consolidated indebtedness (excludes debt discount), including $300.2 million in aggregate principal amount of term loans due 2019 (the “Term Loans”), $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “2021 Notes”) and $344.9 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.0% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2029 (the “2029 Debentures”). Our consolidated indebtedness also includes our revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), which has an aggregate borrowing capacity of $600.0 million, and our accounts receivable securitization facility (the “Receivables Facility”), through which we sell up to $500.0 million of our accounts 12Table of Contentsreceivable to third-party financial institutions. We and our subsidiaries may undertake additional borrowings in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness. Our debt service obligations have important consequences, including: our payments of principal and interest reduce the funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities and acquisitions and other purposes; they increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, financial market and industry conditions; our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited; they may hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; we may be required to incur additional interest due to the contingent interest features of the 2029 Debentures, which are embedded derivatives; and our financial results are affected by increased interest costs. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our debt, refinance our indebtedness, make scheduled payments on our operating leases, fund planned capital expenditures or to finance acquisitions will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, make necessary capital expenditures or meet other cash needs. If unable to do so, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. Our Revolving Credit Facility is subject to renewal in August 2016 and our Receivables Facility is subject to renewal in September 2016. There can be no assurance that available funding or any sale of additional receivables or additional financing will be possible at the times of renewal in amounts or terms favorable to us, if at all. Over the next three years, we will be required to repay approximately $520.6 million of our currently outstanding indebtedness, of which $22.6 million is related to our Revolving Credit Facility, $453.6 million is related to our Receivables Facility, $37.6 million is related to our international lines of credit, and $4.2 million is related to our Term Loans.Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facilities also require us to maintain specific earnings to fixed expenses and to meet minimum net worth requirements in certain circumstances. Our Term Loan, 2021 Notes and credit facilities contain, and any of our future debt agreements may contain, certain covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional debt or issue guarantees; create liens; make certain investments; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; make capital expenditures; redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and merge or consolidate with any person. Our Term Loan and credit facilities contain additional affirmative and negative covenants, and our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the 2029 Debentures, the 2021 Notes, the credit facilities, the Term Loan, and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become impaired. As of December 31, 2013, our combined goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets amounted to $1,837.4 million. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows to recover the net amount of any investments in goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets recorded, the investment could be considered impaired and subject to write-off. We expect to record further goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets as a result of future acquisitions we may complete. Future amortization of such assets or impairments, if any, of goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations in any given period. There is a risk that the market value of our common stock may decline. Stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies in our industry have been volatile. In recent years, volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. For some issuers, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity. It is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock will rise or fall. Trading prices of our common stock will be influenced by our operating results and prospects and by global economic, financial and other factors. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 2029 Debentures. 13Table of Contents Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the 2029 Debentures and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock or the value of the 2029 Debentures. There may be future dilution of our common stock. To the extent options to purchase common stock under our stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur dilution. Additionally, our 2029 Debentures include contingent conversion price provisions and options for settlement in shares. Based on our current stock price, the 2029 Debentures may be converted into common stock which would increase dilution to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.