Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Microtek Medical Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia in 1987. Headquartered near Atlanta, Georgia and with operations worldwide, the Company specializes in the design, manufacture and marketing of an extensive range of surgical products for patient care, occupational safety and management of infectious and hazardous waste for the healthcare industry. The Company’s goal is to provide healthcare professionals with innovative product solutions that encompass a high-level of patient care and prevention of cross infection in operating rooms and ambulatory surgical centers. The Company’s extensive line of products, including sterile procedure equipment drapes and surgical patient drapes, are marketed to healthcare professionals through multiple channels, including direct sales, original equipment manufacturers (“OEM’s”) and private label arrangements. The Company conducts substantially all of its operations through its healthcare subsidiary, Microtek Medical, Inc. (“Microtek”). OREX Technologies International (“OTI”), a division of the Company, was previously focused on the commercialization of the Company’s OREX degradable products and disposal technologies to the nuclear power generating industry until this business was licensed to a third party in September 2004. Microtek, a market leading healthcare company within its area of focus, manufactures and markets its infection and fluid control products and other surgical products to healthcare professionals for use in environments such as operating rooms and ambulatory surgical centers. Traditionally a category leader in sterile procedure equipment drapes, surgical patient drapes and fluid control drapes, Microtek offers a diverse product line which has been designed to improve patient care and to address risk reduction and cross contamination concerns for virtually every medical specialty in a healthcare facility, from interventional radiology, cardiology and angiography to orthopedics, neurology, OB/GYN, urology and other clinical environments. Additionally, Microtek is also a prominent contract manufacturer for some of most technologically advanced healthcare equipment companies in the world. Microtek has established a broad product selling system through multiple channels including distributors, directly through its own sales force, original equipment manufacturers, and private label customers. Additionally, Microtek has a strong presence as a branded component supplier to custom procedure tray companies. Through its acquisition of certain businesses of International Medical Products, B.V. and affiliates (collectively, “IMP”) on May 28, 2004, Microtek added to its operations the development, manufacture, marketing and distribution in Europe of high quality dip-molded medical devices (primarily ultrasound probe covers), other equipment covers, cardiac thoracic drain systems, gynecological devices and wound care products. Microtek’s acquisition in March 2006 of the European manufacturing and distribution operations of Samco added additional European manufacturing capacity, primarily in Malta, and an expanded sales presence in Germany. In July 2006, Microtek acquired substantially all of the assets of Ceres Medical, a marketer of a small line of products sold primarily to cardiology and interventional radiology specialties within the United States. In October 2006, Microtek acquired all of the stock of Europlak, a France-based marketer of minimally invasive surgical products and devices primarily to urology, gastroenterology and related surgical specialties. In December 2006, Microtek acquired all of the stock of Eurobiopsy, a France-based company focused on the design, development, manufacture and commercialization of a line of endoscope biopsy forceps. 2 Index to Financial Statements OTI’s most recent efforts have focused primarily on the commercialization of its OREX degradable products and technology for disposing of such products in the nuclear power generating industry. In September 2004, the Company granted to a third party a worldwide exclusive license to manufacture, use and sell the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology in the nuclear industry and the homeland security industry and for certain other industrial applications. Concurrently, the Company also entered into an exclusive three-year supply agreement under which the Company has agreed to provide certain sourcing and supply chain management services and to sell a total of approximately $4.8 million of inventory to its licensee. Except for activities under this licensing arrangement and the supply agreement, the Company is not actively engaged in any business development efforts associated with the Company’s OREX products and processing technologies. The Company’s internet address is www. microtekmed.com. The Company makes available free of charge, through its web site, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with or furnishes such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on the web site is not part of this report. Business Strategy The Company provides healthcare professionals with innovative product solutions that encompass a high level of patient care and prevention of cross infection. The Company intends to maintain this business by continually improving its existing capabilities and simultaneously developing and acquiring new business opportunities while maintaining its customer focus and providing the highest levels of customer support. The Company seeks to increase sales and earnings from its infection control business by completing strategic acquisitions, enhancing its worldwide marketing and distribution efforts, introducing new products, increasing direct sales representation, employing tele-sales agents for added sales coverage, and capitalizing on low-cost manufacturing opportunities in the Dominican Republic, Malta and China. Since 2001, the Company’s acquisition strategy has resulted in the following transactions: • In the first quarter of 2001, Microtek acquired the post-surgical clean-up product line and the patient and medical equipment drape product lines of Deka Medical, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of specialty equipment and patient drapes for use in various surgical procedures to prevent infection; • In February 2001, the Company acquired the assets of MICROBasix LLC (“MICROBasix”) after developing a cooperative alliance relationship with MICROBasix in 2000 for the purpose of sharing technologies, products and services that provide significant volume reduction of low level radioactive waste for the nuclear industry; • In November 2002, Microtek acquired the surgical drape product line of Gyrus ENT, LLC; • In November 2003, Microtek acquired substantially all of the assets of Plasco, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of multi-line disposable medical device products; • In March 2004, Microtek acquired substantially all of the assets of Ortho/Plast, Inc., a marketer of a small line of orthopedic products; • In May 2004, Microtek acquired certain assets related to certain businesses of International Medical Products, B.V. and affiliates (collectively, “IMP”) engaged in the development, manufacture, marketing and distribution in Europe of high quality dip-molded medical devices (primarily ultrasound probe covers), other equipment covers, cardiac thoracic drain systems, gynecological devices and wound care products; 3 Index to Financial Statements • In March 2006, Microtek acquired the European manufacturing and distribution operations of Samco which added additional European manufacturing capacity, primarily in Malta, and an expanded sales presence in Germany; • In July 2006, Microtek acquired substantially all of the assets of Ceres Medical, a marketer of a small line of products sold primarily to cardiology and interventional radiology specialties within the United States; • In October 2006, Microtek acquired all of the stock of Europlak, a France-based marketer of minimally invasive surgical products and devices primarily to urology, gastroenterology and related surgical specialties; • In December 2006, Microtek acquired all of the stock of Eurobiopsy, a France-based company focused on the design, development, manufacture and commercialization of a line of endoscope biopsy forceps. At the same time that the Company has pursued this acquisition strategy, the Company has generated internal growth by making product improvements and product line extensions to its existing product families. The Company has also made significant investments in all parts of its business, particularly in its domestic sales and marketing infrastructure and in its European operations, to increase market awareness of the Company’s branded product lines and to further position the Company as a worldwide market leader in the customized infection control market. The Company has also focused on efforts to expand and develop its relationships with its customers and other end users which include certain of the leading original equipment manufacturers (“OEM’s”) and supply service companies in the world. Historically, the majority of the Company’s operations have been conducted domestically in the United States and North America. In 2004, approximately 81.3 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues were considered domestic while the remaining 18.7 percent were generated internationally. In 2005 and 2006, approximately 24.4 percent and 26.6 percent, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues were generated internationally. Less than one percent of the Company’s sales in 2006 were related to its nuclear industry revenues. The Company’s objective is to increase shareholder value by efficiently deploying its capital and management resources to grow its business, reduce its operating costs and build sustainable competitive positions and to complete acquisitions that generate attractive cash returns. Marketing and Distribution The Company believes that one of its key marketing strengths is its reputation for meeting the needs of its customers and solving problems in clinical settings with a consistent measure of innovation, physician preference and efficiency. Consistent with its niche market strategy, Microtek is actively engaged in the development of new products and the refinement of its existing products to appropriately respond to the needs of healthcare professionals and their patients and to the changing technology of the healthcare industry. Many of the Company’s product innovations have been generated from requests by the Company’s customers, equipment manufacturers and healthcare professionals for products to be custom designed to address specified problems in the operating room and ambulatory surgical center environments. The Company also monitors trends in the healthcare industry and performs market research in order to evaluate new product ideas. Domestically and abroad, the Company markets its healthcare products through two channels or customer categories: branded and contract manufacturing (commonly referred to as OEM). The Company’s healthcare revenues (excluding its OTI division revenues) for 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Domestic: Branded 48.4 % 48.5 % 53.0 % OEM 24.8 % 26.3 % 27.1 % 73.2 % 74.8 % 80.1 % International** 26.8 % 25.2 % 19.9 % TOTAL 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % ** includes branded and OEM revenues sold in international markets 4 Index to Financial Statements Within the United States, the Company’s branded products are marketed to hospitals and other surgical settings through a combined sales and marketing effort which includes direct field sales representatives, independent sales representatives in selected regions and an inside tele-sales team. The Company believes that its unique blend of outside and inside sales cooperation and focus allow for maximized domestic market penetration and a more active defense against competition. The Company’s direct sales focus also allows the Company to establish and maintain direct contact with its customers and other end users. Additionally, the Company sells its branded and non-branded products to custom procedure tray companies (commonly known as kitpackers). On a non-branded, contract manufacturing basis, the Company’s products are marketed to equipment manufacturers and other medical device companies by the Company’s own contract manufacturing sales specialists. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s domestic marketing and sales force consisted of 46 sales representatives, 36 of whom are employed by the Company and ten of whom are independent representatives, eight field sales managers, four home office sales managers, 14 marketing managers, and 20 persons in customer support. All of these persons market and sell the Company’s infection control products and do not market or sell the Company’s OREX products and services. As is customary in the healthcare industry, the Company also relies on large independent distributors to market and distribute its products. Because distribution of medical products is heavily dependent upon these large distributors, the Company anticipates that it will remain dependent upon these distributors and others for the distribution of its products. If the efforts of the Company’s distributors prove unsuccessful, or if such distributors abandon or limit their distribution of the Company’s products, the Company’s sales may be materially adversely affected until the Company could establish other means of delivery to its customers, including other distributors or through the Company’s direct sales force. The Company considers its customers to be the hospitals and medical professionals who use the Company’s products, rather than these distributors. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare, two of the Company’s largest diversified distributors, accounted for approximately 6.7 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare were 6.8 percent and 3.1 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2005, respectively, and 8.2 percent and 2.7 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2004, respectively. The Company also sells its products to Cardinal Healthcare on a branded, private label and contract manufacturing basis. In 2006, non-distributor related sales to Cardinal Healthcare amounted 6.5 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues as compared to 9.3 percent and 9.9 percent in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Outside the United States, the Company markets its products principally through a network of more than 100 different dealers and distributors and through its own international direct sales force. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 20 sales representatives operating in international markets and 11 persons in international marketing and customer support. The Company is actively seeking to expand its international direct sales force. International sales during 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $37.7 million, $32.8 million and $23.7 million, respectively. Products Branded The foundation of Microtek’s product portfolio is its sterile procedure drapes which are centered on infection and fluid control applications for risk reduction and protection in the operating room and beyond. The development of Microtek’s manufacturing capabilities and its market strategy through the growth of its infection control barrier technology has given Microtek a gateway to new product and procedural specialty platforms from which to serve the healthcare marketplace. New concepts such as Microtek’s CleanOp® system have changed operating room turnover between patient procedures; new product platforms in orthopedics and peripheral vascular expand Microtek’s presence into large, growth markets; and established markets for its traditional draping products, Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) prevention and liquid solidifiers continue to contribute to Microtek’s overall profitability. 5 Index to Financial Statements Sterile Procedure Drapes. Sterile procedures occur in virtually every area of hospitals, outpatient surgical settings and other healthcare facilities. Operating Rooms, Cath Labs, Interventional Radiology and Endoscopy Centers are just some of the most noted locations. Sterile procedures have also become mobile throughout healthcare facilities, bringing diagnostic equipment and vascular access procedures out of the operating room and to the patient. Microtek’s product line consists of more than 1,500 specially designed drapes to protect the sterile surgical procedure area from the non-sterile equipment and patient. Equipment Drapes. Microtek offers innovative design draping solutions to promote risk reduction and protection for practically every piece of equipment found in a clinical environment today. In addition to reducing the risk of cross-infection, Microtek’s equipment drapes increase operating room efficiency by reducing the need to sterilize equipment between procedures. These disposable sterile products are generally made from plastic film containing features designed for the operating room environment, such as low glare and anti-static properties. Equipment drapes, which generated approximately 29.6 percent of the Company’s consolidated revenues for 2006 and 2005 and approximately 27.1 percent of the Company’s consolidated revenues for 2004, consisted of the following product categories: Neurosurgical Microscope. Microtek has custom designed a cover for virtually every model and brand of surgical microscope used today. Convenience-driven innovations, such as ClearLens which eliminates glare while maintaining the sterile field, enhance the product’s performance. X-Ray Imaging C-Arm. Imaging technology is an increasingly vital part of many medical procedures. Microtek’s imaging equipment drapes not only protect the sterile field but also help ensure that valuable imaging equipment is not exposed to surgical fluids. Ultrasound Probe. Microtek offers a full line of ultrasound and imaging solutions for diagnostic and biopsy procedures. Microtek’s ultrasound probe covers offer innovations such as Isosilk™, a latex-free material for imaging needs where disease and contamination control is a high priority. Microtek’s general and endocavity probe covers are also available in sterile or non-sterile packaging, are telescopically folded and contain other customized features to promote fit. Endoscopic Camera. Microtek’s endoscopic camera drapes are specially designed to provide clear vision, extreme flexibility and patient comfort. Quick and easy to turnaround for increased procedures, Microtek’s endoscopic camera drapes provide advanced levels of performance beneficial to both physicians and patients. Other Equipment Drapes. Microtek offers draping alternatives for a wide range of other commercial equipment, including slush machine/fluid warmers and sterile, single-use banded bags made with Microshield™ clear poly material for visual clarity. Microtek’s equipment draping line also offers other specialty options and performance innovations to address the rapidly evolving medical device technology in surgical procedures. Surgical Patient Drapes. Microtek manufactures and sells specialty patient drapes, both non-woven and plastic varieties, which offer various enhancements, such as fluid collection pouches, incise and unique procedure-specific designs. Microtek’s surgical patient drapes accounted for approximately 12.7 percent, 11.9 percent, and 12.2 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004. These drapes have been specially designed to provide advanced functionality and performance integrity for an extensive range of medical specialties, including: Interventional Cardiology and Interventional Radiology. Interventional cardiology and radiology are rapidly expanding specialties with ever increasing numbers of procedures with a host of unique needs. Microtek’s most recent product offerings for these specialties include a specialty drape which offers protection during high-dose, fluoroscopically guided procedures by blocking and significantly reducing harmful scatter radiation at the source and minimizing the risks of exposure. Additionally, Microtek has recently introduced a line of drapes which improve clinical efficacy and promote speed, convenience, ease and risk reduction in closing surgical procedures. This product line features procedure-specific dressings which are affixed to the drape and thus eliminate the need to break the sterile field prior to application of the wound dressing. 6 Index to Financial Statements Urology. Urology procedures typically require surgeons to work in confined sections of the anatomy where fluid control is essential. Microtek’s urology surgical patient drapes provide critical features to enhance visibility, instrument manipulation and fluid control. Obstetrics-Gynecology. Microtek offers a wide spectrum of procedure-specific patient drapes with innovative designs to accommodate the unique surgical and fluid control requirements and the extensive range of needs of obstetricians and gynecologists. Microtek’s surgical patient drapes for OB/GYN procedures include see through panels and Microtek’s patented PerfectPouch™ for optimum fluid control and ease of access. Orthopedic. Microtek’s orthopedic surgical patient drapes are designed for musculoskeletal procedures performed today, from minimally invasive arthroscopy to hip replacement surgery. Special features and innovations, such as fluid control with Microtek’s patented PerfectPouch™, promote physician ease and access while enhancing patient comfort throughout the procedure. Neurosurgery. Neurological surgeries involving the spinal column, spinal cord, brain and peripheral nerves require every measure of precaution, especially in the area of protecting the sterile field from risk of infection for potentially extended periods of time. Microtek’s surgical patient drapes for neurosurgery ensure that conveniences are available to surgeon, from instrument pouches to self sealing channels. Equally critical are features to promote ease of access and filtered fluid collection. Ophthalmic. Ophthalmic surgery requires extraordinary precision with delicate anatomy from optic nerves to the retina. Microtek’s ophthalmic surgical patient drapes, many of which were designed in collaboration with ophthalmic specialists, control fluids, protect the sterile field and offer a unique nature of access for surgeons. ENT. The wide range of precision instruments used in ear, nose and throat procedures has created an ongoing need for innovation in surgical patient drapes for ENT. Microtek’s drapes offer the latest advances for ENT procedures, including special drainage ports for fluid release and easy access instrument pouches. General Purpose Surgery. Microtek’s general purpose surgical patient drapes are impressive in performance, innovative design and sheer breadth of custom product diversity. Strategically placed clear view panels, convenient instrument pouches and innovative advances in fluid control distinguish the risk reduction and protection advantages of these drapes for the patient, surgeon and healthcare staff. CleanOp® Room Turnover System. Microtek’s CleanOp® system consists of an entire line of products and supplies designed to efficiently and effectively clean a procedural room and prepare it for subsequent use. These pre-packaged, non-sterile systems combine all the necessary clean-up products into a convenient and easy-to-use pack. Enhanced with Microtek’s innovative new Mojave™ super absorbent linens, Microtek’s CleanOp system offers a higher degree of risk reduction combined with the supplies and training necessary to assure proper room turnover protocol. Microtek’s CleanOp products have been a significant source of the increase in the Company’s branded revenues since 2001 due to increased market penetration and the absence of a significant competitor coupled with the Company’s focused selling and marketing activities. Revenues from CleanOp products generated 9.2 percent, 8.0 percent and 8.9 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. DVT Compression Therapy. Compression therapy is recommended for surgeries lasting 45 minutes and longer to prevent DVT. Intermittent compression systems, such as Microtek’s Venodyne system, are noted as a leading choice to prevent DVT without the risk of post-operative bleeding often associated with drug therapies. DVT compression therapy revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than five percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues. 7 Index to Financial Statements Medi-Plast Fluid Decanters. Microtek’s Medi-Plast system of decanting devices helps assure the aseptic dispensing of fluids from a diverse variety of containers. Medi-Plast bag, vial and bottle decanters, as well as container-to-container transfer devices, represent a complete and essential fluid transfer management system. Medi-Plast system revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than five percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues. Liquid Medical Waste Solidifiers. Effective containment and management of fluids in the surgical environment is fundamental to risk reduction from the point of origin to the transport and disposal of liquid waste. Microtek offers industry-leading safety measures for bio-hazardous fluid encapsulation and conversion from liquid waste to solid, including ISOSORB® Solidifier and LTS-PLUS® Solidifier with disinfectant. ISOSORB® Solidifier eliminates the need to transport biohazardous fluids in liquid form by solidifying and encapsulating up to 40 times its own weight of blood, blood components and fluids with wide ranges of pH and electrolyte concentrations. LTS-PLUS® minimizes the chance for fluid contamination by solidifying and disinfecting infectious fluids collected in the operating room, whether from patients or from fluids used for irrigation. Liquid solidifier revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than five percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues. MDI Emergency Medical. Microtek’s emergency medical solutions include a full spectrum of innovative emergency response products, including its industry-leading CPR Microshield, a patented barrier device to enhance performance of CPR while also offering maximum risk reduction and protection for the patient and the first responder. Microtek also offers its innovative EMS Immobile-Vac system, a unique splint technology used to immobilize the arm, leg, wrist, angle and full body via a vacuum form which is created around the injured anatomy using a contoured splint or temporary cast. MDI emergency medical revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were less than five percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues. Other Specialty Medical Products. Microtek acquired and continues to develop two product categories which have enhanced the Company’s surgical offerings. First, the OrthoPrep™ line of orthopedic products consists of a host of devices for joint arthroplasty, including cement restrictors used in joint replacements and femoral bone prep trays, a pre-engineered single-tray system with every device necessary to prep the femoral canal for a cemented hip procedure. Other OrthoPrep offerings include Microtek’s Wound Evac system which promotes healing by providing safe, effective and portable wound drainage via a gentle negative pressure that actually removes harmful fluids and bacteria from the anatomy and the OrthoPrep™ Disposable Hood System which offers a convenient, ventilated barrier protection for the surgical team. Secondly, through its acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Ceres Medical in July 2006, Microtek acquired a group of non-drape related products focused on cardiology and interventional radiology procedures, including biopsy forceps and micro-introducer kits. These products are engineered with the precision, accuracy and dependability required for these applications. Although not a significant portion of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006, the Company believes there are significant growth opportunities in the future for these higher-margin products. OEM Microtek is also focused on developing high concept designs that ultimately become valuable solutions for patients, healthcare professionals and medical equipment manufacturers. In this effort, Microtek contracts with premier brand names and collaborates with visionaries from various technology and industrial sectors. Microtek’s extensive manufacturing capabilities in numerous locations around the world, including the United States, the Dominican Republic, the Netherlands, Mexico, Malta and France, ensure that every product is produced to world-class standards. Microtek also provides assistance throughout the market evaluation and approval and regulatory processes which are critical in bringing a product to market. Microtek’s technical support helps ensure that its contract manufactured products are properly managed through each level of certification and approval including: ISO, FDA, CE Marking, GMP, UL Listing, or any other required regulatory or compliance standard. Microtek’s commitment to customer support and satisfaction and its focus on developing its OEM partner relationships have built worldwide trust in Microtek’s turnkey OEM capabilities. OEM revenues comprised 24.6 percent, 25.4 percent and 25.5 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 8 Index to Financial Statements OREX Degradables During a portion of 2004, the Company’s OTI division was focused on commercializing its OREX Degradable products and processing technology primarily in nuclear power markets. OTI’s nuclear products consisted of protective clothing products such as coveralls, hoods and booties used in the nuclear power industry to help protect people from radioactive contamination, primarily in connection with periodic maintenance and re-fueling of nuclear power systems. After such use, these products are required to be treated as low-level radioactive materials and thereby become subject to regulations addressing the manner in which they are processed and disposed. OTI owns a processing system called MICROBasix which substantially reduces the volume of OREX products, separates radioactive contaminants and facilitates the disposal of processed by-product material. Effective September 30, 2004, the Company granted to Eastern Technologies, Inc. (“ETI”) an exclusive license to manufacture, use and sell the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology in the nuclear industry and the homeland security industry, and for certain other industrial applications. The license extends for the duration of the Company’s patents for the OREX materials and processing technology. Through set royalties, management fees and proceeds from the sale of equipment and inventories, ETI is required to pay the Company certain fixed sums over the first three-year period of this arrangement, and thereafter is required to pay certain royalties based on the amount of ETI’s net revenues from the sale of OREX products and processing services. Except for these activities with ETI under this licensing arrangement, the Company is no longer actively engaged in any business development efforts associated with the Company’s OREX materials and processing technologies. Nuclear industry revenues amounted to less than one percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006 and approximately three percent and six percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Manufacturing and Supplies The Company manufactures its products at its facilities in Columbus, Mississippi; Tyler, Texas; the Dominican Republic; Acuna, Mexico; Varsseveld, the Netherlands; Malta and near Toulon, France. The Company’s facilities in Columbus, Mississippi and Tyler, Texas also serve as distribution centers for certain of the Company’s products. The Company utilizes a facility in Jacksonville, Florida as its primary distribution point for the receipt and shipment of products and for light manufacturing. The Company’s European headquarters near Zutphen, the Netherlands serves as its primary distribution point for the majority of its European sales. Through the Company’s relationship with Global Resources, the Company sources certain of its infection control products from China when advantageous. The Company maintains a variety of suppliers for its raw materials and other components necessary for the manufacture of its products. Based on its existing arrangements with suppliers and current and anticipated requirements, the Company believes that it has made adequate provisions for acquiring its raw materials and other components. The Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are strong and that these relationships help to ensure the stability of the Company’s manufacturing processes. Historically, the Company has not been materially affected by interruptions with its suppliers; however, if a supplier of significant raw materials or component parts were to terminate its relationship with the Company or otherwise cease to supply the Company with required raw materials or components, the Company’s ability to meet its manufacturing requirements may be disrupted, which could materially impact the Company’s business and financial condition. Research and Development Microtek is continually focused on developing new innovative product solutions to solve its customers’ needs. Microtek is also receptive to new product opportunities, market trends and emerging needs. While Microtek has developed a number of its own products, most of its research and development efforts have historically been directed toward product improvement and enhancements of previously developed products. Primarily through its own internal engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources but also through direct collaboration with renowned healthcare professionals and medical equipment manufacturers, Microtek has created a product 9 Index to Financial Statements development process which enables ideas and concepts to be quickly turned into prototypes that can be market tested and market released in an effective and efficient manner. The Company’s research and development expenses in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $873,000, $810,000 and $1,048,000, respectively. Order Backlog At December 31, 2006, the Company’s order backlog totaled approximately $360 thousand, compared to approximately $800 thousand (in each case net of any cancellations) at December 31, 2005. All backlog orders at December 31, 2006 are expected to be filled during the first quarter of 2007. Microtek typically sells its products pursuant to written purchase orders which generally may be canceled without penalty prior to shipment of the product. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that the level of backlog orders at any date is material or indicative of future results. Because the Company strives to meet customer needs promptly and to provide the highest levels of customer support, typical shipment times range from one to three days which require that the Company maintain sufficient levels of inventories at all times. Technology and Intellectual Property The Company seeks to protect its proprietary technology, both in the United States and in international jurisdictions, by obtaining patents and filing patent applications for technology and products that it considers important to its business when it believes that such patent applications will be advantageous to the Company. Additionally, the Company relies upon registrations of various trademarks that the Company believes are recognized within their principal markets, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, proprietary know-how, innovation and market penetration to develop and maintain its competitive position. The Company also operates under licenses from other owners of certain patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, or trademarks. While these are considered, in the aggregate, materially important to its business, the Company does not consider that any single patent, pending patent application, technology, trade secret or trademark, or any group of them, is essential to the Company’s success. The Company holds several patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office relating to various technologies for use in its infection control and fluid control products business as well as in its liquid medical waste solidifier business. The Company also holds numerous patents relating to several aspects of its OREX line of products, including several patents concerning methods of manufacture, methods of use, and methods of disposal, and patents covering several of the OREX products themselves. The Company’s current U.S. patent holdings will expire between the years 2007 and 2023. Among the Company’s registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office are: “MICROTEK”, “VERSA-DRAPE”, “ORTHOPREP”, “PERFECT POUCH”, “UNIVERSAL ANGIOGRAPHY DRAPE”, “SAF-T-SORB”, “NO-SPILL”, “ARMATEC”, “ISODRAPE” & DESIGN, “ISOLYSER”, “LTS PLUS”, “CLEARLENS”, “ISOSORB”, “MICROBASIX” & DESIGN, “EZÚSERT”, “ISOSILK”, “CLEANOP”, “C.P.R. MICROSHIELD”, “MDI”, “INNOVATION BY DESIGN”, “VENODYNE”, “WOUND EVAC”, “OREX” and “CERTIFIED SOLUBLE OREX MICROBASIX” & DESIGN. In addition, the Company holds certain international trademark registrations for those trademarks associated with and considered important to its international markets. No assurance can be given that the various components of the Company’s technology protection arrangements utilized by the Company to protect its technologies will provide any significant competitive advantage or will be successful in preventing others from making products competitive with those offered by the Company or its licensees. Litigation may be necessary to protect the Company’s patent position. Such litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in such litigation. Since the Company also relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to maintain its competitive position, no assurance can be given that others may not independently develop similar or superior technologies or obtain access to the Company’s trade secrets, know-how or proprietary technology. The medical device industry is increasingly competitive, and there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and intellectual rights. There are risks that the Company’s activities may require the Company to defend itself against claims and actions alleging infringement of the intellectual rights of others. This action could be costly and, if unsuccessful, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 10 Index to Financial Statements Competition The domestic and international markets in which the Company’s product lines compete are highly competitive. In general, the Company’s products compete with the products of numerous companies in the business of developing, manufacturing, distributing and marketing medical products. Some of these competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. The Company believes that each of its markets are characterized by competition on the basis of (i) quality, (ii) price, (iii) product design, development, function and innovation, (iv) distribution arrangements, (v) customer service and support, (vi) customer relationship, (vii) convenience and (viii) promptness of delivery. The Company believes that its products have achieved market acceptance due to the Company’s emphasis on overall value through a combination of competitive pricing, exceptional product quality and innovation and superior customer service and support. Additionally, in an effort to meet customer needs promptly, the Company maintains sufficient inventory levels to enable delivery of most of its products within one to three days of order. Government Regulation As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, the Company is subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as well as the corresponding regulatory agencies of the state, local and foreign governments in which the Company sells its products. These regulations govern the development, testing, packaging, labeling and marketing of medical devices and manufacturing procedures relating to these devices. The Company’s traditional medical products (including, for example, equipment drapes) are regulated by the FDA under the medical device provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”). Pursuant to the FDCA, medical devices intended for human use are classified into one of three categories, Classes I, II and III, on the basis of the controls deemed necessary by the FDA to reasonably assure the safety and effectiveness of these devices. Each class involves an increasing degree of regulatory control. Medical devices in these categories are subject to regulations which require, among other things, pre-market notifications or approvals and adherence to good manufacturing practices, labeling, record-keeping and registration requirements. Devices which the Company currently markets are classified as Class I or Class II devices subject to existing 510(k) clearances which the Company believes satisfy FDA pre-market notification requirements. There can be no assurances as to when, or if, other such 510(k) clearances necessary for the Company to market products developed by it in the future will be issued by the FDA. The Company is also required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations which require that the Company have a quality system for the design and production of its products intended for commercial distribution in the United States and satisfy recordkeeping requirements with respect to its manufacturing, testing and control activities. The Company’s manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance procedures and documents are subject to unscheduled inspection and evaluation by the FDA which has broad authority to order recalls of medical devices, issue stop sale orders, seize non-complying medical devices, enjoin violations, impose civil and criminal penalties and criminally prosecute violators. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which may be ambiguous or unclear, can result in fines, civil and criminal penalties, stop sale orders, loss or denial of approvals and recalls or seizures of products. Countries in the European Union require that certain products being sold within their jurisdictions obtain a “CE mark”, an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards, and be manufactured in compliance with certain requirements. The Company has CE mark approval to sell most of its medical device products and its safety products in Europe. One of the conditions to obtaining CE mark status involves the qualification of the Company’s manufacturing plants and corporate offices under certain certification processes. All of the Company’s manufacturing plants and administrative offices have obtained such certifications, except the Company’s manufacturing facilities located in Tyler, Texas and the Company’s executive offices in Alpharetta, Georgia which do not hold such certifications. To maintain CE mark approval, the Company has to satisfy continuing obligations including annual inspections by European notified bodies as well as satisfy record keeping, product qualification and other quality assurance requirements. The notified bodies have the authority to stop the Company’s use of the CE 11 Index to Financial Statements mark if the Company fails to meet these standards. While the Company believes that its operations at these facilities are in compliance with requirements to maintain CE mark status, no assurances are provided that such certifications will be maintained or that other foreign regulatory requirements will not adversely affect the Company’s marketing efforts in foreign jurisdictions. Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), any product which claims to kill microorganisms through chemical action must be registered with the EPA. FIFRA affects primarily the Company’s fluid encapsulation and infectious waste treatment products including LTS-Plus, a product which provides treatment for encapsulation and disinfection of suction canister waste. LTS-Plus is registered with the EPA as a chemical device. State and local regulations of the Company’s products and services are highly variable. Individual state registration of LTS-Plus is required for just over half of the states in the United States as a condition to landfill of treated suction canisters. In 1997, as a result of a review of an existing approval in California for the landfilling in California of waste treated by LTS, California authorities revoked such approval and have also not given approval for the use of LTS-Plus. While LTS offers benefits unrelated to landfilling, such action has adversely affected the Company’s ability to sell LTS-Plus. The Company is continuing the process of obtaining from the various states approval to landfill waste treated by LTS-Plus, and has obtained such approval from several states not including California. The rules for disinfecting infectious waste are being revised on a national standard. The outcome of the national standard will play a very important part in the life of LTS-Plus. No assurances can be provided that the prior regulatory actions or pending regulatory reviews will not continue to have an adverse effect upon the sales of the Company’s sanitizing liquid absorbent products. Regulators at the Federal, state and local level have imposed, are currently considering and are expected to continue to impose regulations on medical and other waste. No prediction can be made of the potential effect of any such future regulations, and there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulations will not increase the costs of the Company’s products or prohibit the sale or use of the Company’s products, in either event having an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company employed 1,829 full-time employees, 34 part-time employees and ten people as independent contractors. Of these, 123 were employed in marketing, sales and customer support, 1,496 in manufacturing, 14 in research and development, and 240 in administrative positions. The Company believes its relationship with its employees is good. Insurance The Company maintains commercial general liability insurance which provides coverage with respect to product liability claims. The manufacture and sale of the Company’s products entail an inherent risk of liability. The Company believes that its insurance is adequate in amount and coverage. There can be no assurance that any future claims will not exceed applicable insurance coverage. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that such liability insurance will be available at a reasonable cost or that the Company will be able to maintain adequate levels of liability insurance in the future. In the event that claims in excess of these coverage amounts are incurred, they could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Environmental Matters The Company is not a party to any material environmental regulation proceedings alleging that the Company has unlawfully discharged materials into the environment. The Company does not anticipate the need for any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during the next 18 to 24 months. 12 Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Low barriers to entry for competitive products could cause the Company to reduce the prices for its products or lose customers. Most of the Company’s infection control products are not protected by patents, and some of such infection control products that are protected by patents are subject to competition from products which may be manufactured or used in a way which does not infringe upon the Company’s patents. In addition, other barriers to entry, such as manufacturing processes and regulatory approvals, may not prevent the introduction of products competitive with the Company’s infection control products. The introduction of competitive products or other competitive marketing strategies, including competitive marketing from companies outside the United States through the internet, could force the Company to lower its prices for its products or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Large purchasers of the Company’s products regularly negotiate for reductions in prices for the Company’s products, which may reduce the Company’s profits. While the Company has been able to substantially maintain Microtek’s gross margins during 2006, the large customers to which Microtek sells its products regularly negotiate for reductions in pricing of products which they purchase. This could require that the Company reduce the prices at which it sells its products or revise the manner in which the Company sells or distributes its products. These changes could reduce Microtek’s sales or gross margins, or both, and potentially have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Because a few distributors control much of the delivery of hospital supplies to hospitals, the Company relies significantly on these distributors in connection with the sale of the Company’s branded products. As is customary in the healthcare industry, the Company has historically relied to a significant extent on a few large distributors to market and distribute its branded products. Hospitals often prefer to purchase products from one or a few distributors to facilitate the delivery, control and management of the hospital’s inventory of supplies. Hospitals accordingly purchase most of their products from a few large distributors, and the Company anticipates that it will remain dependent upon these distributors and others for the distribution of its products. If the efforts of the Company’s distributors prove unsuccessful, or if such distributors abandon or limit their distribution of the Company’s products (such as could occur if a distributor is unable to obtain price adjustments which a distributor seeks from the Company), the Company’s sales may be materially adversely affected until the Company could establish other means of delivery to its customers, including other distributors or through the Company’s direct sales force. The Company considers its customers to be the hospitals and medical professionals who use the Company’s products, rather than these distributors. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare, two of the Company’s largest diversified distributors, accounted for approximately 6.7 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare were 6.8 percent and 3.1 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2005, respectively, and 8.2 percent and 2.7 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2004, respectively. The Company also sells its products to Cardinal Healthcare on a branded, private label and contract manufacturing basis. In 2006, non-distributor related sales to Cardinal Healthcare amounted to 6.5 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues as compared to 9.3 percent and 9.9 percent in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s relatively small sales and marketing force may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its competition. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s marketing and sales force consisted of 123 individuals, including 68 people in sales and 45 people in marketing and customer support. Additionally, the Company has ten independent contractors involved in its sales and marketing efforts. Included in the Company’s sales and marketing force are 20 sales representatives who operate in international markets. The Company is actively seeking to expand its direct sales force in its international markets. Other companies with which the Company competes have substantially larger sales forces and greater brand awareness, placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage. For example, the Company may not be able to reach certain potential customers due to the Company’s inability to have its products included within certain group purchasing organizations’ lists of approved products. The Company’s contract manufacturing division relies upon a small number of customers, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Microtek’s contract manufacturing division, which accounted for 24.6 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2006, has historically relied upon a relatively small number of customers for most its net revenues. The loss of any one or more of such customers, which may occur unexpectedly, could have a material and disproportionately adverse impact upon the Company’s net revenues and operating results. 13 Index to Financial Statements The inability of the Company to complete acquisitions of businesses at an attractive cost could adversely affect the Company’s growth. Part of Microtek’s growth strategy involves completing strategic acquisitions. The Company’s ability to complete strategic acquisitions is subject to a number of variables outside the control of the Company including the Company’s ability to find attractive and complementary acquisition opportunities at an attractive cost which the Company can afford or can finance on acceptable terms. Failure to successfully complete strategic acquisitions on favorable terms may adversely affect the Company’s growth rate. If the Company is successful in acquiring businesses, the failure to successfully integrate those businesses could adversely affect the Company. As the Company completes acquisitions, it encounters risks that it will not successfully integrate the acquired products or business operations into its business and thereby fail to achieve the benefits sought to be achieved through these acquisitions. In addition, the Company is generally required to invest in an acquired company’s financial and disclosure controls to improve on assurances that the Company will timely receive complete information to accurately fulfill its financial reporting and disclosure obligations. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in the Company’s operations could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s growing international operations subject the Company’s operating results to numerous additional risks. Of the Company’s $141.6 million in consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, $37.7 million, or 26.6 percent, were generated from sales of products outside the United States. In addition, the Company maintains manufacturing facilities in the Dominican Republic, Mexico, the Netherlands, Malta and France which are important components of the Company’s manufacturing operations. International sales and operations are subject to risks including political, economic and other risks and uncertainties inherent in the countries in which the Company operates; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, in particular the relationship of the U.S. dollar to the functional currencies of the Company’s international subsidiaries which could result in currency translations that materially impact the Company’s revenues and earnings; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; difficulties in transferring earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the Company; burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; export duties, quotas and embargoes; and business interruptions due to terrorist activities or acts of God such as hurricanes. Because the Company expects that a significant and growing proportion of its revenues will continue to come from international operations and because the Company expects to continue to rely upon off-shore manufacturing, the occurrence of any of the above events could materially and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Non-performance by the Company’s third-party licensee with respect to the development of the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology could adversely affect the Company. During 2004, the Company granted to ETI a worldwide exclusive license for the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology in the nuclear industry and the homeland security industry, and for certain other industrial applications. Except for these activities with ETI under the Company’s licensing arrangement, the Company is not actively engaged in any business development efforts associated with the Company’s OREX materials and processing technologies. The Company is accordingly entirely dependent upon the efforts of ETI with respect to the operating results generated by the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology. In the event ETI fails to perform its obligations under the Company’s licensing arrangements with ETI, or is unsuccessful in growing the OREX business, the Company may not achieve a continuing return on its investment in this business and technology. The loss of any of the Company’s key personnel, particularly its President, could adversely affect the Company. The Company believes that its ability to succeed will depend to a significant extent upon the continued services of a limited number of key personnel, and the ability of the Company to attract and retain key personnel. The Company currently has three executive officers. The loss of any one of the Company’s executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company as the Company may not be able to attract and retain suitable replacements for its executive positions. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its executive officers other than a $1.5 million policy on Mr. Lee, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, which may adversely affect the Company’s growth and operating results. There are many companies engaged in the development, manufacturing and marketing of products and technologies that are competitive with the Company’s products and technologies. 14 Index to Financial Statements Many such competitors are large companies with significantly greater financial resources than the Company. For example, the Company seeks to sell its antimicrobial incise drapes to the healthcare industry, and the Company has a small market share in the sales of these products at this time. Therefore, the Company will be required to displace sales of competitive products in this industry to gain market presence. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to the development, manufacturing and marketing of products competitive with the Company’s products. The successful marketing of competing products by one or more of the Company’s competitors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s products entail risks of liability, which could result in claims against the Company. The manufacture and sale of the Company’s products entails an inherent risk of liability. Product liability claims may be asserted against the Company in the event that the use of the Company’s products or processing systems are alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse events, and such claims may involve large amounts of alleged damages and significant defense costs. Although the Company currently maintains product liability insurance providing coverage for such claims, there can be no assurance that the liability limits or the scope of the Company’s insurance policy will be adequate to protect against such potential claims. In addition, the Company’s insurance policies must be renewed annually. While the Company has been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, such insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if it is available at all. A successful claim against the Company in excess of its available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company’s business reputation could be adversely affected by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome. See “Business - Insurance”. The Company’s products are subject to extensive governmental regulations, compliance or non-compliance with which could adversely affect the Company. The development, manufacture and marketing of the Company’s products are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States by Federal, state and local agencies including the EPA and the FDA. Similar regulatory agencies exist in other countries with a wide variety of regulatory review processes and procedures. The process of obtaining and maintaining FDA and any other required regulatory clearances or approvals of the Company’s products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and regulatory authorities may delay or prevent product introductions or require additional tests prior to introduction. The FDA also requires healthcare companies to satisfy the quality system regulation. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which may be ambiguous or unclear, can result in fines, civil and criminal penalties, stop sale orders, loss or denial of approvals and recalls or seizures of products. There can be no assurance that changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations will not occur, which could prevent the Company from obtaining approval for (or delay the approval of) various products or could affect market demand for the Company’s products. New products and technologies could cause the Company’s products to become less attractive or obsolete. Many companies are engaged in the development of products and technologies to address the need for safe and cost-effective prevention of infection in healthcare markets. There can be no assurance that superior products or technologies will not be developed or that alternative approaches will not prove superior to the Company’s infection control products. For example, some companies are attempting to develop technologies to sterilize equipment maintained in the operating room which would compete directly with the Company’s sterile procedure equipment drapes. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. The Company’s strategies to protect its proprietary assets may be ineffective, allowing increased competition with the Company. The Company holds various issued patents and has various patent applications pending relative to its products. See “Business – Technology and Intellectual Property.” There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s patents will prove to be valid and enforceable, that any patent will provide adequate protection for the technology, process or product it is intended to cover or that any patents will be issued as a result of pending or future applications. Failure to obtain patents pursuant to the Company’s patent applications could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations. It is also possible that competitors will be able to develop materials, processes or products, including other methods of disposing of contaminated waste, outside the patent protection the Company has or may obtain, or that such competitors may circumvent, or successfully challenge the validity of patents issued to the Company. Although there is a statutory presumption of a patent’s validity, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. In the event that another party infringes the Company’s patent or trade secret rights, the enforcement of such 15 Index to Financial Statements right is generally at the option of the Company and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Further, no assurance can be given that the Company’s other protection strategies such as confidentiality agreements will be effective in protecting the Company’s technologies. Due to such factors, no assurance can be given that the various components of the Company’s technology protection arrangements utilized by the Company, including its patents, will be successful in preventing other companies from making products competitive with those offered by the Company or its licensees. The Company may encounter claims for violating the intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that claims alleging that the Company’s technology or products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others will not be brought against the Company or its licensees, or that any such claims will not be successful. If such a claim were successful, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. In addition to any potential monetary liability for damages, the Company could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the product or products in question or could be enjoined from making or selling such product or products if such a license were not made available on acceptable terms. If the Company or its licensees becomes involved in such litigation, it may require significant Company resources, which may materially adversely affect the Company. See “Business - Technology and Intellectual Property”. The Company’s stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The market prices for securities of companies with a very small market capitalization such as the Company can be highly volatile. Various factors, including factors that are not related to the Company’s operating performance, may cause significant volume and price fluctuations in the market, which may limit an investor’s liquidity in the Company’s common stock and could result in a loss in the value of such investment. Accounting for income taxes makes it difficult to understand and compare the Company’s operating results from period to period. Accounting for income taxes has had a significant impact upon the Company’s earnings. At December 31, 2006, the Company had net deferred income tax assets, before consideration of any valuation allowances, of approximately $23.7 million, including operating loss carryforwards for Federal, state and foreign income tax purposes of approximately $23.4 million. The Company’s operating loss carryforwards, to the extent not covered by the valuation allowance, are expected to be used by the Company to offset future U.S. Federal, state and foreign income tax liabilities as they accrue. At December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $4.9 million against its deferred income tax assets resulting in net deferred income tax assets of approximately $18.8 million at December 31, 2006. Determining the amount of the valuation allowance against the Company’s deferred tax assets is highly sensitive to significant judgments about the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income. Adjustments in such judgments may result in significant changes to the tax provision in the Company’s results of operations and thereby significantly impact the Company’s profitability, although such adjustments have no impact on the Company’s cash position or cash flow. The effect of these adjustments on the Company’s financial statements, if any, may make it more difficult to compare the operating results of the Company from period to period or to compare the operating results of the Company with other companies. This could also adversely affect the market prices at which securities of the Company trade on public markets. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the Company’s operating results. International sales by the Company during 2006 were $37.7 million. Approximately $7.6 million of the Company’s international sales in 2006 were billed and paid in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company’s international subsidiaries. Currency translations on international sales and other transactions that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company’s subsidiaries could be adversely affected in the future by the relationship of the U.S. dollar to these functional currencies resulting in currency translation charges or benefits that may materially impact the Company’s revenues and earnings. The volatility in the rate of exchange of the Dominican peso with the U.S. dollar and actions to compensate for this volatility could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. During late 2004 and most of 2005, the value of the Dominican peso substantially increased in relation to the U.S. dollar. As this occurs, the costs of the Company’s inventory increases because the Company manufactures a material portion of its inventory at its facilities located in the Dominican Republic. Increases in the value of the Dominican peso relative to the U.S. dollar in the future may similarly result in increased costs to the Company for its inventory, which would adversely affect 16 Index to Financial Statements the Company’s operating results. The Company cannot mitigate this risk by hedging strategies based on forward contracts to purchase Dominican pesos because these contracts are not readily available for purchase in established markets. The Company pursues other strategies to mitigate this currency exchange risk, such as maintaining bank deposits in the Dominican Republic denominated in pesos. These bank deposits are generally not insured due to the unavailability of insurance on larger deposits in the Dominican Republic. This causes the Company to encounter risks of losses on deposits. The Company’s expenses for raw materials and product distribution are adversely affected by increases in the price for petroleum. A significant portion of the raw materials required by Microtek to manufacture its products and a significant portion of the Company’s distribution expenses are highly dependent upon the price for petroleum. As the petroleum prices rise, the costs for these raw materials and amount of these distribution expenses also increase. Due to competitive pressures and other contractual limitations, Microtek may not readily pass these price increases on to its customers. While the Company has been successful in offsetting these pricing pressures with other manufacturing efficiencies and cost controls, continuing increases in prices of raw materials and distribution expenses may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company maintains a Rights Agreement which may discourage or make it more difficult for a person to obtain control of the Company. On December 20, 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors amended its shareholder protection rights agreement (the “Rights Agreement”). Under the Rights Agreement, a dividend of one right (“Right”) to purchase a fraction of a share of a newly created class of preferred stock was declared for each share of common stock outstanding at the close of business on December 31, 1996. The Rights, which expire on December 31, 2016, may be exercised only if certain conditions are met, such as the acquisition (or the announcement of a tender offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquisition) of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the common stock (“15% Acquisition”) of the Company by a person or affiliated group. The Rights, if exercised, would cause substantial dilution to a person or group of persons that attempts to acquire the Company without the prior approval of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may cause the Company to redeem the rights for nominal consideration, subject to certain exceptions. The Rights Agreement may discourage or make more difficult any attempt by a person or a group of persons to obtain control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 