ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Low barriers to entry for competitive products could cause the Company to reduce the prices for its products or lose customers. Most of the Company’s infection control products are not protected by patents, and some of such infection control products that are protected by patents are subject to competition from products which may be manufactured or used in a way which does not infringe upon the Company’s patents. In addition, other barriers to entry, such as manufacturing processes and regulatory approvals, may not prevent the introduction of products competitive with the Company’s infection control products. The introduction of competitive products or other competitive marketing strategies, including competitive marketing from companies outside the United States through the internet, could force the Company to lower its prices for its products or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Large purchasers of the Company’s products regularly negotiate for reductions in prices for the Company’s products, which may reduce the Company’s profits. While the Company has been able to substantially maintain Microtek’s gross margins during 2005, the large customers to which Microtek sells its products regularly negotiate for reductions in pricing of products which they purchase. This could require that the Company reduce the prices at which it sells its products or revise the manner in which the Company sells or distributes its products. These changes could reduce Microtek’s sales or gross margins, or both, and potentially have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Because a few distributors control much of the delivery of hospital supplies to hospitals, the Company relies significantly on these distributors in connection with the sale of the Company’s branded products. As is customary in the healthcare industry, the Company has historically relied to a significant extent on a few large distributors to market and distribute its branded products. Hospitals often prefer to purchase products from one or a few distributors to facilitate the delivery, control and management of the hospital’s inventory of supplies. Hospitals accordingly purchase most of their products from a few large distributors, and the Company anticipates that it will remain dependent upon these distributors and others for the distribution of its products. If the efforts of the Company’s distributors prove unsuccessful, or if such distributors abandon or limit their distribution of the Company’s products (such as could occur if a distributor is unable to obtain price adjustments which a distributor seeks from the Company), the Company’s sales may be materially adversely affected. During 2004, as a result of the Company’s efforts to reduce its distribution expense with Owens & Minor, Owens & Minor chose to limit the manner in which it distributes some of the Company’s products. This has resulted in increased competitive pressure on some of Microtek’s products including particularly its CleanOp products. This increase in competitive pressure has adversely affected the selling price of these Microtek products, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company considers its customers to be the hospital and medical professionals who use the Company’s products, rather than these distributors. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare, two of the Company’s largest diversified distributors, accounted for approximately 6.8 percent and 3.1 percent, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2005. Distributor sales to Owens & Minor and Cardinal Healthcare were 8.2 percent and 2.7 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2004, respectively, and 9.0 percent and 3.4 percent of consolidated net revenues in 2003, respectively. The Company also sells its products to Cardinal Healthcare on a branded, private label and contract manufacturing basis. In 2005, non-distributor related sales to Cardinal Healthcare amounted to 9.3 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues as compared to 9.9 percent and 11.3 percent in 2004 and 2003, respectively. 9 Index to Financial Statements The Company’s relatively small sales and marketing force may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its competition. At December 31, 2005, the Company’s marketing and sales force consisted of 102 individuals, including 56 people in sales and 46 people in marketing and customer support. Additionally, the Company has nine independent contractors involved in its sales and marketing efforts. Included in the Company’s sales and marketing force are 13 sales representatives who operate in international markets. The Company is seeking to expand its direct sales force in its international markets. Other companies with which the Company competes have substantially larger sales forces and greater brand awareness, placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage. For example, the Company may not be able to reach certain potential customers due to the Company’s inability to have its products included within certain group purchasing organizations’ lists of approved products. The Company’s contract manufacturing division relies upon a small number of customers, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Microtek’s contract manufacturing division, which accounted for 25.4 percent of the Company’s consolidated net revenues in 2005, relies upon a relatively small number of customers for most its net revenues. The loss of any one or more of such customers, which may occur unexpectedly, could have a material and disproportionately adverse impact upon the Company’s net revenues and operating results. The inability of the Company to complete acquisitions of businesses at an attractive cost could adversely affect the Company’s growth. Part of Microtek’s growth strategy involves completing strategic acquisitions. The Company’s ability to complete strategic acquisitions is subject to a number of variables outside the control of the Company including the Company’s ability to find attractive and complementary acquisition opportunities at an attractive cost which the Company can afford or can finance on acceptable terms. Failure to successfully complete strategic acquisitions on favorable terms may adversely affect the Company’s growth rate. If the Company is successful in acquiring businesses, the failure to successfully integrate those businesses could adversely affect the Company. As the Company completes acquisitions, it encounters risks that it will not successfully integrate the acquired products or business operations into its business and thereby fail to achieve the benefits sought to be achieved through these acquisitions. In addition, the Company is generally required to invest in an acquired company’s financial and disclosure controls to improve on assurances that the Company will timely receive complete information to accurately fulfill its financial reporting and disclosure obligations. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in the Company’s operations could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s growing international operations subject the Company’s operating results to numerous additional risks. Of the Company’s $134.5 million in consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, $32.8 million, or 24.4 percent, were generated from sales of products outside the United States. In addition, the Company maintains manufacturing facilities in the Dominican Republic, Mexico and the Netherlands which are important components of the Company’s manufacturing operations. International sales and operations are subject to risks including political, economic and other risks and uncertainties inherent in the countries in which the Company operates; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, in particular the relationship of the U.S. dollar to the functional currencies of the Company’s international subsidiaries which could result in currency translations that materially impact the Company’s revenues and earnings; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; difficulties in transferring earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the Company; burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; export duties, quotas and embargoes; and business interruptions due to terrorist activities or acts of God such as hurricanes. Because the Company expects that a significant and growing proportion of its revenues will continue to come from international operations and because the Company expects to continue to rely upon off-shore manufacturing, the occurrence of any of the above events could materially and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Non-performance by the Company’s third-party licensee with respect to the development of the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology could adversely affect the Company. During 2004, the Company granted to ETI an exclusive license for the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology in the nuclear 10 Index to Financial Statements industry and the homeland security industry, and for certain other industrial applications. Except for these activities with ETI under the Company’s licensing arrangement, the Company is not actively engaged in any business development efforts associated with the Company’s OREX materials and processing technologies. The Company is accordingly entirely dependent upon the efforts of ETI with respect to the operating results generated by the Company’s OREX materials and processing technology. In the event ETI fails to perform its obligations under the Company’s licensing arrangements with ETI, or is unsuccessful in growing the OREX business, the Company may not achieve a continuing return on its investment in this business and technology and may be required to record losses with respect to the Company’s existing inventories of OREX products and materials which the Company plans to sell to ETI. The loss of any of the Company’s key personnel, particularly its President, could adversely affect the Company. The Company believes that its ability to succeed will depend to a significant extent upon the continued services of a limited number of key personnel, and the ability of the Company to attract and retain key personnel. The Company currently has three executive officers. The loss of any one of the Company’s executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company as the Company may not be able to attract and retain suitable replacements for its executive positions. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its executive officers other than a $1.5 million policy on Mr. Lee, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, which may adversely affect the Company’s growth and operating results. There are many companies engaged in the development, manufacturing and marketing of products and technologies that are competitive with the Company’s products and technologies. Many such competitors are large companies with significantly greater financial resources than the Company. For example, the Company seeks to sell its antimicrobial incise drapes to the healthcare industry, and the Company has a small market share in the sales of these products at this time. Therefore, the Company will be required to displace sales of competitive products in this industry to gain market presence. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to the development, manufacturing and marketing of products competitive with the Company’s products. The successful marketing of competing products by one or more of the Company’s competitors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s products entail risks of liability, which could result in claims against the Company. The manufacture and sale of the Company’s products entails an inherent risk of liability. Product liability claims may be asserted against the Company in the event that the use of the Company’s products or processing systems are alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse events, and such claims may involve large amounts of alleged damages and significant defense costs. Although the Company currently maintains product liability insurance providing coverage for such claims, there can be no assurance that the liability limits or the scope of the Company’s insurance policy will be adequate to protect against such potential claims. In addition, the Company’s insurance policies must be renewed annually. While the Company has been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, such insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if it is available at all. A successful claim against the Company in excess of its available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company’s business reputation could be adversely affected by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome. See “Business - Insurance”. The Company’s products are subject to extensive governmental regulations, compliance or non-compliance with which could adversely affect the Company. The development, manufacture and marketing of the Company’s products are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States by Federal, state and local agencies including the EPA and the FDA. Similar regulatory agencies exist in other countries with a wide variety of regulatory review processes and procedures. The process of obtaining and maintaining FDA and any other required regulatory clearances or approvals of the Company’s products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and regulatory authorities may delay or prevent product introductions or require additional tests prior to introduction. The FDA also requires healthcare companies to satisfy the quality system regulation. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which may be ambiguous or unclear, can result in fines, civil and criminal penalties, stop sale orders, loss or denial of approvals and recalls or seizures of products. There can be no assurance that changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations will not occur, which could prevent the Company from obtaining approval for (or delay the approval of) various products or could affect market demand for the Company’s products. 11 Index to Financial Statements New products and technologies could cause the Company’s products to become less attractive or obsolete. Many companies are engaged in the development of products and technologies to address the need for safe and cost-effective prevention of infection in healthcare markets. There can be no assurance that superior products or technologies will not be developed or that alternative approaches will not prove superior to the Company’s infection control products. For example, some companies are attempting to develop technologies to sterilize equipment maintained in the operating room which would compete directly with the Company’s equipment drapes. Any such developments would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. The Company’s strategies to protect its proprietary assets may be ineffective, allowing increased competition with the Company. The Company holds various issued patents and has various patent applications pending relative to its OREX Degradables products. See “Business – Technology and Intellectual Property.” There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s patents will prove to be valid and enforceable, that any patent will provide adequate protection for the technology, process or product it is intended to cover or that any patents will be issued as a result of pending or future applications. Failure to obtain patents pursuant to the Company’s patent applications could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations. It is also possible that competitors will be able to develop materials, processes or products, including other methods of disposing of contaminated waste, outside the patent protection the Company has or may obtain, or that such competitors may circumvent, or successfully challenge the validity of patents issued to the Company. Although there is a statutory presumption of a patent’s validity, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. In the event that another party infringes the Company’s patent or trade secret rights, the enforcement of such right is generally at the option of the Company and can be a lengthy and costly process, with no guarantee of success. Further, no assurance can be given that the Company’s other protection strategies such as confidentiality agreements will be effective in protecting the Company’s technologies. Due to such factors, no assurance can be given that the various components of the Company’s technology protection arrangements utilized by the Company, including its patents, will be successful in preventing other companies from making products competitive with those offered by the Company or its licensees, including OREX Degradables. The Company may encounter claims for violating the intellectual property rights of others. Although to date no claims have been brought against the Company alleging that its technology or products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that such claims will not be brought against the Company or its licensees in the future, or that any such claims will not be successful. If such a claim were successful, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. In addition to any potential monetary liability for damages, the Company could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the product or products in question or could be enjoined from making or selling such product or products if such a license were not made available on acceptable terms. If the Company or its licensees becomes involved in such litigation, it may require significant Company resources, which may materially adversely affect the Company. See “Business - Technology and Intellectual Property”. The Company’s stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The market prices for securities of companies with a very small market capitalization such as the Company can be highly volatile. Various factors, including factors that are not related to the Company’s operating performance, may cause significant volume and price fluctuations in the market, which may limit an investor’s liquidity in the Company’s common stock and could result in a loss in the value of such investment. Accounting for income taxes makes it difficult to understand and compare the Company’s operating results from period to period. Accounting for income taxes has had a significant impact upon the Company’s earnings. At December 31, 2005, the Company had deferred income tax assets, before consideration of any valuation allowances, of approximately $27.7 million, including operating loss carryforwards for Federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $26.9 million. The Company’s operating loss carryforwards, to the extent not covered by the valuation allowance, are expected to be used by the Company to offset future U.S. Federal and state income tax liabilities as they accrue. At December 31, 2005, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $4.9 million against its deferred income tax assets resulting in net deferred income tax assets of approximately $22.8 million at December 31, 2005. Determining the amount of the valuation allowance against the Company’s deferred tax assets is highly sensitive to significant judgments about the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income. 12 Index to Financial Statements Adjustments in such judgments may result in significant changes to the tax provision in the Company’s results of operations and thereby significantly impact the Company’s profitability, although such adjustments have no impact on the Company’s cash position or cash flow. The effect of these adjustments on the Company’s financial statements, if any, may make it more difficult to compare the operating results of the Company from period to period or to compare the operating results of the Company with other companies. This could also adversely affect the market prices at which securities of the Company trade on public markets. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the Company’s operating results. International sales by the Company during 2005 were $32.8 million. Approximately $7.6 million of the Company’s international sales in 2005 were billed and paid in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company’s international subsidiaries. Currency translations on international sales and other transactions that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company’s subsidiaries could be adversely affected in the future by the relationship of the U.S. dollar to these functional currencies resulting in currency translation charges or benefits that may materially impact the Company’s revenues and earnings. The volatility in the rate of exchange of the Dominican peso with the U.S. dollar and actions to compensate for this volatility could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. During late 2004 and most of 2005, the value of the Dominican peso substantially increased in relation to the U.S. dollar. As this occurs, the costs of the Company’s inventory increases because the Company manufactures a material portion of its inventory at its facilities located in the Dominican Republic. Increases in the value of the Dominican peso relative to the U.S. dollar in the future may similarly result in increased costs to the Company for its inventory, which would adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company cannot mitigate this risk by hedging strategies based on forward contracts to purchase Dominican pesos because these contracts are not readily available for purchase in established markets. The Company pursues other strategies to mitigate this currency exchange risk, such as maintaining bank deposits in the Dominican Republic denominated in pesos. These bank deposits are generally not insured due to the unavailability of insurance on larger deposits in the Dominican Republic. This causes the Company to encounter risks of losses on deposits. The Company’s expenses for raw materials and product distribution are adversely affected by increases in the price for petroleum. A significant portion of the raw materials required by Microtek to manufacture its products and a significant portion of the Company’s distribution expenses are highly dependent upon the price for petroleum. As the price for petroleum rises, the costs for these raw materials and amount of these distribution expenses also increase. Due to competitive pressures and other contractual limitations, Microtek may not readily pass these price increases on to its customers. While the Company has been successful in offsetting these pricing pressures with other manufacturing efficiencies and cost controls, continuing increases in prices of raw materials and distribution expenses may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company maintains a Rights Agreement which may discourage or make it more difficult for a person to obtain control of the Company. On December 19, 1996, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a shareholder protection rights agreement (the “Rights Agreement”). Under the Rights Agreement, a dividend of one right (“Right”) to purchase a fraction of a share of a newly created class of preferred stock was declared for each share of common stock outstanding at the close of business on December 31, 1996. The Rights, which expire on December 31, 2006, may be exercised only if certain conditions are met, such as the acquisition (or the announcement of a tender offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquisition) of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the common stock (“15% Acquisition”) of the Company by a person or affiliated group. The Rights, if exercised, would cause substantial dilution to a person or group of persons that attempts to acquire the Company without the prior approval of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may cause the Company to redeem the rights for nominal consideration, subject to certain exceptions. The Rights Agreement may discourage or make more difficult any attempt by a person or a group of persons to obtain control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 Index to Financial Statements 