ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information included in, or incorporated by reference into in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. The following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. All of these risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have had losses, and we cannot assure future profitability.We have reported operating income for fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 and an operating loss for fiscal year 2009. We have reported net losses for the fiscal years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and net income for fiscal year 2013. Our accumulated deficit was $309.9 million at March 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that we will operate profitably in future periods and, if we do not, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements, working capital requirements, capital expenditure plans, production slate, acquisition and releasing plans or other cash needs. Our inability to meet those needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We face substantial capital requirements and financial risks.Our business requires a substantial investment of capital. The production, acquisition and distribution of motion pictures and television programs require a significant amount of capital. A significant amount of time may elapse between our expenditure of funds and the receipt of exploitation revenues from or government contributions to our motion pictures or television programs. This time lapse requires us to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements from our senior secured credit facility and from other financing sources. Although we intend to continue to reduce the risks of our production exposure through financial contributions from broadcasters and distributors, tax credit programs, government and industry programs, 22Table of Contentsother studios and co-financiers and other sources, we cannot assure you that we will continue to implement successfully these arrangements or that we will not be subject to substantial financial risks relating to the production, acquisition, completion and release of future motion pictures and television programs. In addition, if we increase (through internal growth or acquisition) our production slate or our production budgets, we may be required to increase overhead and/or make larger up-front payments to talent and, consequently, bear greater financial risks. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.The costs of producing and marketing feature films is high and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit or compete against other films. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased from year to year. These costs may continue to increase, which may make it more difficult for our films to generate a profit or compete against other films. Historically, production costs and marketing costs have risen at a higher rate than increases in either the number of domestic admissions to movie theaters or admission ticket prices. A continuation of this trend would leave us more dependent on other media, such as home entertainment, television, international markets and digital for revenue, which revenues may not be sufficient to offset an increase in the cost of motion picture production and marketing. If we cannot successfully exploit these other media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Budget overruns may adversely affect our business. Our business model requires that we be efficient in the production of our motion pictures and television programs. Actual motion picture and television production costs may exceed their budgets, sometimes significantly. The production, completion and distribution of motion pictures and television productions are subject to a number of uncertainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative differences among key cast members and other key creative personnel or other disruptions or events beyond our control. Risks such as death or disability of star performers, technical complications with special effects or other aspects of production, shortages of necessary equipment, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or frustrate completion of a production. If a motion picture or television production incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production or fund the overrun ourselves. We cannot make assurances regarding the availability of such financing on terms acceptable to us, and the lack of such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.In addition, if a motion picture or television production incurs substantial budget overruns, we cannot assure you that we will recoup these costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. Increased costs incurred with respect to a particular film may result in any such film not being ready for release at the intended time and the postponement to a potentially less favorable date, all of which could cause a decline in box office performance, and, thus, the overall financial success of such film. Budget overruns could also prevent a picture from being completed or released. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes. In the absence of such cash flows or capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: •our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;•the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money;23Table of Contents•the holders of our secured debt could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and/or•we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, require us to dedicate substantial capital to servicing our debt obligations, expose us to interest rate risk, limit our ability to pursue strategic business opportunities, affect our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations.Historically, we have been highly leveraged and may be highly leveraged in the future. As of March 31, 2013, our consolidated total indebtedness was $1,353.7 million (carrying value - $1,327.3 million). Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following:•it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, motion picture and television development, production and distribution, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or limit our ability to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us;•a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including funding motion picture and television production, development and distribution and other operating expenses, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;•certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates;•it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•it may limit our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions and other business opportunities that may be in our best interests; •we may be vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; and/or•we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth.Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future.Although each of our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including guarantees, make restricted payments and investments, and grant liens on our assets, the covenants contained in such debt documents provide a number of important exceptions and thus, do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Such exceptions will provide us substantial flexibility to incur indebtedness, grant liens and expend funds to operate our business. For example, under the terms of the indenture governing our senior secured notes (i) with few restrictions, we may incur indebtedness in connection with certain film and television financing arrangements, including without limitation, purchasing or acquiring rights in film or television productions or financing print and advertising expenses, and such indebtedness may be secured by liens senior to the liens in respect of our senior secured notes, and (ii) in limited circumstances, we may make investments in assets that are not included in the borrowing base supporting our senior secured notes, in each case, without having to meet the leverage ratio tests for debt incurrence or to fit such investments within the restricted payments “build up basket” or within other categories of funds applicable to making investments and other restricted payments under the indenture governing our senior secured notes.In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through our amended and restated $800.0 million senior secured credit facility. At March 31, 2013, we have borrowed approximately $338.5 million under our senior secured credit facility and have approximately $8.5 million in letters of credit outstanding. We could borrow some or all of the remaining permitted amount in the future. The amount we have available to borrow under this facility depends upon our borrowing base, which in turn depends on the value of our existing library of films and television programs, as well as accounts receivable and cash held in collateral accounts. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' existing high debt levels, this has the potential to magnify the risks discussed above relating to our ability to service our indebtedness and the potential adverse impact our high level of indebtedness could have on us.An increase in the ownership of our common shares by certain shareholders could trigger a change in control under the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.The agreements governing certain of our long-term indebtedness contain change in control provisions that are triggered when any of our shareholders, directly or indirectly, acquires ownership or control in excess of a certain percentage of our common shares. 24Table of ContentsAs of May 24, 2013, three of our shareholders, Mark H. Rachesky, M.D., FMR LLC and Capital Research Global Investors and their respective affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 37.7%, 9.3% and 8.9%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares.Under certain circumstances, including the acquisition of ownership or control by a person or group in excess of 50% of our common shares, the holders of our senior secured notes and our convertible senior subordinated notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of such notes upon a change in control and the holders of our convertible senior subordinated notes may be entitled to receive a make whole premium based on the price of our common shares on the change in control date. We may not be able to repurchase these notes upon a change in control because we may not have sufficient funds. Further, we may be contractually restricted under the terms of our senior secured credit facility from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change in control. Our failure to repurchase our senior secured notes upon a change in control would cause a default under the indentures governing the senior secured notes and the convertible senior subordinated notes and a cross-default under our senior secured credit facility and our revolving film credit facility.Our senior secured credit facility and our revolving film credit facility also provide that a change in control, which includes a person or group acquiring ownership or control in excess of 50% of our outstanding common shares, will be an event of default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder and to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such debt, thereby limiting our ability to raise cash to purchase our outstanding senior secured notes and convertible senior subordinated notes. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions.Restrictive covenants may adversely affect our operations.Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes contain various covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to, among other things:•incur or assume additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;•issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;•pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt that is junior in right of payment to our senior secured notes;•make loans, investments and capital expenditures;•incur liens;•engage in sale/leaseback transactions;•restrict dividends, loans or asset transfers from our subsidiaries;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into new lines of business.These covenants may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests and the indenture governing our senior secured notes, outside of specified exceptions, require us to satisfy certain financial tests in order to engage in activities such as incurring debt or making restricted payments. Our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control (such as a change in control event), and we cannot assure you that we will meet them. See “An increase in the ownership of our common shares by certain shareholders could trigger a change in control under the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness.” Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, the indenture governing our senior secured notes or the agreements governing our other financing arrangements, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Further, the holders of our secured debt that is secured by a first priority or other senior lien, could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which collateral represents substantially all of our assets. If the holders of our debt accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flow or assets to repay our debt, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us.25Table of ContentsVariable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. The applicable margin with respect to loans under our senior secured credit facility is a percentage per annum equal to 2.50% plus an adjusted rate based on LIBOR. Assuming that our senior secured credit facility is fully drawn, based on the applicable LIBOR in effect as of March 31, 2013, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $1.6 million change in annual interest expense. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility.Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly.Our results of operations are difficult to predict and depend on a variety of factors. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the commercial success of the motion pictures and television programming that we distribute, which cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, the underperformance at the box office of one or more motion pictures in any period may cause our revenue and earnings results for that period (and potentially, subsequent periods) to be less than anticipated, in some instances to a significant extent. Accordingly, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results for any future periods. Our results of operations also fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, as well as license periods for our content. Our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period or fiscal year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year or prior fiscal year. Moreover, our results of operations may be impacted by the success of critically acclaimed and award winning films, including Academy Award® winners and nominees. We cannot assure you that we will manage the production, acquisition and distribution of future motion pictures as successfully as we have done with these recent critically acclaimed, award winning and/or commercially popular films or that we will produce or acquire motion pictures that will receive similar critical acclaim or perform as well commercially. Any inability to achieve such commercial success could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Our operating results also fluctuate due to our accounting practices (which are standard for the industry) which may cause us to recognize the production and marketing expenses in different periods than the recognition of related revenues, which may occur in later periods. For example, in accordance with GAAP and industry practice, we are required to expense film advertising costs as incurred, but are also required to recognize the revenue from any motion picture or television program over the entire revenue stream expected to be generated by the individual picture or television program. In addition, we amortize film and television programming costs using the "individual-film-forecast" method. Under this accounting method, we amortize film and television programming costs for each film or television program based on the following ratio:Revenue earned by title in the current periodEstimated total future revenues by title as of the beginning of the yearWe regularly review, and revise when necessary, our total revenue estimates on a title-by-title basis. This review may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the film or television asset to its estimated fair value. Results of operations in future years depend upon our amortization of our film and television costs. Periodic adjustments in amortization rates may significantly affect these results.In addition, the comparability of our results may be affected by changes in accounting guidance or changes in our ownership of certain assets and businesses. For example, in fiscal 2011, we retrospectively deconsolidated our interest in TV Guide Network due to new accounting guidance and now account for our holding in that business under the equity method of accounting. Further, in August 2011, we sold our majority interest in Maple Pictures Corp. and therefore no longer include the results of operations of that business in our consolidated results of operations although we record the amounts reported to us from the distribution of our products net of certain distribution fees and expenses, as revenue. Accordingly, our results of operations from year to year may not be directly comparable to prior reporting periods.26Table of ContentsAs a result of the foregoing and other factors, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results for any future period.Due to the difficulty of predicting our results of operations and other factors, it is difficult for industry or financial analysts to accurately forecast our results. The trading market for our common shares is influenced by the research and reports that such industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If an analyst who covers us changes his or her financial estimates or investment recommendation, or if our results of operations fall short of his or her estimates, the price of our common shares could decline.We have few output agreements with cable and broadcast channels. We distribute our library of motion picture titles and television episodes and programs through EPIX, certain broadcast channels such as TVGN (which exhibit our films, but license such rights on a film-by-film, rather than an output basis) and, specifically, for certain Summit motion picture titles, through Showtime Networks and HBO. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure other output agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. Without multiple output agreements that typically contain guaranteed minimum payments, our revenues may be subject to greater volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We do not have long-term arrangements with many of our production or co-financing partners. We typically do not enter into long term production contracts with the creative producers of the films we produce, acquire or distribute. For example, we have a “first-look” arrangement with Tyler Perry that gives us a right to negotiate for the purchase of distribution rights to films if certain criteria are met but, even if we negotiate for such purchase, we are not guaranteed to obtain such distribution rights. Further, we have an agreement with the creators of the Saw franchise that gives us the right to compel production through Saw IX under certain contractual conditions and, thereafter, the right to “opt in” under certain economic terms for future Saw films if our partner elects to produce such pictures. Additionally, Summit has agreements with Vendome International (which runs through October 31, 2013) which give Summit the first opportunity to be the domestic distributor and to act as sales agent in the international territory for qualifying motion pictures. Summit also has an agreement with Participant Media (which runs through December 31, 2013) which provides for the potential co-financing and/or distribution by Summit of certain qualifying motion pictures controlled by Participant Media. Moreover, we generally have certain derivative rights that provide us with distribution rights to, for example, prequels, sequels and remakes of certain films we produce, acquire or distribute. However, there is no guarantee that we will produce, acquire or distribute future films by any creative producer or co-financing partner, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We rely on a few major retailers and distributors for a material portion of our business and the loss of any of those retailers or distributors could reduce our revenues and operating results. Wal-Mart represented approximately 11% of our revenues in fiscal 2013. In addition, a small number of other retailers and distributors account for a significant percentage of our revenues. We do not have long-term agreements with retailers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with our retailers and distributors or that they will not be adversely affected by economic conditions. If any of these retailers or distributors reduces or cancels a significant order, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Our revenues and results of operations are vulnerable to currency fluctuations. We report our revenues and results of operations in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our revenues is earned outside of the U.S. Our principal currency exposure is between Canadian dollars, pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and operating margins, and fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. From time to time, we may experience currency exposure on distribution and production revenues and expenses from foreign countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Failure to manage future growth may adversely affect our business.We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures. From time to time, we engage in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, sale of assets, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business, some of which may be significant transactions for us. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Regardless of whether we consummate any such transaction, the negotiation of a potential transaction (including associated litigation and proxy contests), as well as the integration of the acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management's time and resources. Any such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.27Table of ContentsWe may be unable to integrate any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined. Integrating any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined is distracting to our management and disruptive to our business and may result in significant costs to us. We could face challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, information technology and accounting systems, personnel and operations in a timely and efficient manner. If any such integration is unsuccessful, or if the integration takes longer than anticipated, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. We may have difficulty managing the combined entity in the short term if we experience a significant loss of management personnel during the transition period after the significant acquisition.Claims against us relating to any acquisition or business combination may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the seller's indemnification obligations. There may be liabilities assumed in any acquisition or business combination that we did not discover or that we underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence investigation. Although a seller generally will have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition or merger agreement, these obligations usually will be subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and maximum recovery amounts, as well as time limitations. We cannot assure you that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any undiscovered or underestimated liabilities that we may incur. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We may not be able to obtain additional funding to meet our requirements. Our ability to grow through acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures, to maintain and expand our development, production and distribution of motion pictures and television programs, and to fund our operating expenses depends upon our ability to obtain funds through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in certain projects or other assets or businesses. If we do not have access to such financing arrangements, and if other funds do not become available on terms acceptable to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Our dispositions may not aid our future growth. If we determine to sell individual properties, libraries or other assets or businesses, we will benefit from the net proceeds realized from such sales. However, our revenues may suffer in the long term due to the disposition of a revenue generating asset, which may diminish our ability to service our indebtedness and repay our notes and our other indebtedness at maturity. In addition, the timing of such dispositions may be poor, causing us to fail to realize the full value of the disposed asset, which also may diminish our ability to service our indebtedness and repay our notes and our other indebtedness at maturity. Furthermore, our goal of building a diversified platform for future growth may be inhibited if the disposed asset contributed in a significant way to the diversification of our business platform.A significant portion of our filmed and television content library revenues comes from a small number of titles. We depend on a limited number of titles in any given fiscal quarter for the majority of the revenues generated by our filmed and television content library. In addition, many of the titles in our library are not presently distributed and generate substantially no revenue. If we cannot acquire new product and the rights to popular titles through production, distribution agreements, acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We are limited in our ability to exploit a portion of our filmed and television content library.Our rights to the titles in our filmed and television content library vary; in some cases, we have only the right to distribute titles in certain media and territories for a limited term. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew expiring rights on acceptable terms and that any failure to renew titles generating a significant portion of our revenue would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Our success depends on external factors in the motion picture and television industry.Our success depends on the commercial success of motion pictures and television programs, which is unpredictable. Operating in the motion picture and television industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each motion picture and television program is an individual artistic work, and inherently unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our motion pictures and television programs depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the format of their initial release, for example, theatrical or direct-to-video, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of our motion pictures and television programs also 28Table of Contentsdepends upon the quality and acceptance of motion pictures or programs that our competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. In addition, because a motion picture's or television program's performance in ancillary markets, such as home video and pay and free television, is often directly related to its box office performance or television ratings, poor box office results or poor television ratings may negatively affect future revenue streams. Our success will depend on the experience and judgment of our management to select and develop new investment and production opportunities. We cannot make assurances that our motion pictures and television programs will obtain favorable reviews or ratings, that our motion pictures will perform well at the box office or in ancillary markets or that broadcasters will license the rights to broadcast any of our television programs in development or renew licenses to broadcast programs in our library. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Global economic turmoil and regional economic conditions in the U.S. could adversely affect our business. The global economic turmoil of recent years has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government and other foreign governments, decreased consumer confidence, overall slower economic activity and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, a decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our films, thus reducing our revenues and earnings. A decline in economic conditions could reduce performance of our theatrical, television and home entertainment releases. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. Moreover, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult to finance any future acquisitions, or engage in other financing activities. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other downturn in the economy and we are not immune to the effects of general worldwide economic conditions.Licensed distributors' failure to promote our programs may adversely affect our business. Licensed distributors' decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our motion pictures, television programs and related products are important in determining the success of these pictures, programs and products. We generally do not control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our motion pictures or television programs. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote one of our motion pictures, television programs or related products or to promote our competitors' motion pictures, television programs or related products to a greater extent than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. We are directly or indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of motion pictures and television programs. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of motion pictures or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new motion pictures and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We face substantial competition in all aspects of our business.We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors. As an independent distributor and producer, we constantly compete with major U.S. and international studios. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both the means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them to better offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their motion picture and television operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. The motion picture industry is highly competitive and at times may create an oversupply of motion pictures in the market. The number of motion pictures released by our competitors, particularly the major studios, may create an oversupply of product in the market, reduce our share of box office receipts and make it more difficult for our films to succeed commercially. Oversupply may become most pronounced during peak release times, such as school holidays and national holidays, when theater attendance is expected to be highest. For this reason, and because of our generally more limited production and advertising budgets, we historically have not released our films during peak release times. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that 29Table of Contentswe can release all of our films when they are otherwise scheduled. In addition to production or other delays that might cause us to alter our release schedule, a change in the schedule of a major studio may force us to alter the release date of a film because we may not choose to compete with a major studio's larger promotion campaign. Any such change could adversely impact a film's financial performance. In addition, if we cannot change our schedule after such a change by a major studio because we are too close to the release date, the major studio's release and its typically larger promotion budget may adversely impact the financial performance of our film. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. The limited supply of motion picture screens compounds this product oversupply problem. Currently, a substantial majority of the motion picture screens in the U.S. typically are committed at any one time to approximately 10 to 15 films distributed nationally by major studio distributors. In addition, as a result of changes in the theatrical exhibition industry, including reorganizations and consolidations, and major studio releases occupying more screens, the number of screens available to us when we want to release a picture may decrease. If the number of motion picture screens decreases, box office receipts, and the correlating future revenue streams, such as from home entertainment and pay and free television, of our motion pictures may also decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.We must successfully respond to rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive. The entertainment industry in general continues to undergo significant developments as advances in technologies and new methods of product delivery and storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, emerge. For example, the industry has been experiencing a decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally, as a result of factors such as new methods of product delivery and storage, various technological advances and changes in consumer preferences and behavior. Consumers are spending an increasing amount of time on the internet and on mobile devices, and are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the internet, on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices. We cannot predict how we will financially participate in the exploitation of our motion pictures and television programs through these emerging technologies, or whether we have the right to do so for certain of our library titles or whether the revenues we generate through these emerging technologies will offset any future decline in DVD sales. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Limitations on control of joint ventures may adversely impact our operations.We hold our interests in certain businesses as a joint venture or in partnership with non-affiliated third parties. As a result of such arrangements, we may be unable to control the operations, strategies and financial decisions of such joint venture or partnership entities which could in turn result in limitations on our ability to implement strategies that we may favor. In addition, our ability to transfer our interests in businesses owned with third parties is limited under certain joint venture, partnership or similar agreements.We face risks from doing business internationally.We distribute motion picture and television productions outside the U.S., in the U.K. and Ireland through Lionsgate UK, and through various output agreement and third party licensees elsewhere, and derive revenues from these sources. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:•laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws;•changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; differing cultural tastes and attitudes;•differing degrees of protection for intellectual property;•financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets, including in European pay television markets;•the instability of foreign economies and governments;•fluctuating foreign exchange rates;•the spread of communicable diseases in such jurisdictions, which may impact business in such jurisdictions; and•war and acts of terrorism.Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.30Table of ContentsProtecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business.Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright or trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, infringement or invalidity claims could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us.One of the risks of the film and television production business is the possibility that others may claim that our productions and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their previously developed films and televisions series, stories, characters, other entertainment or intellectual property. Any such assertions or claims may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to settle such claim by obtaining a license from the plaintiff covering the disputed intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license, or any other form of settlement, would be available on reasonable terms or at all.Our business involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: •defamation;•invasion of privacy;•negligence;•copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed above); and•other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed.These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and distributors of media content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy, may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films.Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia, and former Eastern bloc countries, and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release on DVDs, Blu-ray discs, from pay-per-view through set-top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our business, because these products reduce the revenue we receive from our products. Additionally, in order to contain this problem, we may have to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures, which could 31Table of Contentsresult in significant expenses and losses of revenue. We cannot assure you that even the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures will prevent piracy.In particular, unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in countries outside of the U.S., Canada and Western Europe, whose legal systems may make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights. While the U.S. government has publicly considered implementing trade sanctions against specific countries that, in its opinion, do not make appropriate efforts to prevent copyright infringements of U.S. produced motion pictures, there can be no assurance that any such sanctions will be enacted or, if enacted, will be effective. In addition, if enacted, such sanctions could impact the amount of revenue that we realize from the international exploitation of motion pictures. If no embargoes or sanctions are enacted, or if other measures are not taken, we may lose revenue as a result of motion picture piracy.Our success depends on certain key employees.Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees, including production and creative personnel. We do not currently have significant “key person” life insurance policies for any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with our top executive officers and production executives. However, although it is standard in the motion picture industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, these agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. In addition, competition for the limited number of business, production and creative personnel necessary to create and distribute our entertainment content is intense and may grow in the future. Our inability to retain or successfully replace where necessary members of our senior management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to produce and distribute our motion pictures and television programs continues to increase. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such personnel in the future. If we were unable to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our securities.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it, require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our securities.Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, and changes in geographic operating results, may adversely affect our effective tax rates.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by changes in the amount of revenue or earnings that we derive from international sources in countries with high or low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations.32Table of ContentsIn addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by federal, state, and foreign tax jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from possible examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. In making such assessments, we exercise judgment in estimating our provision for income taxes. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that final determinations from any examinations will not be materially different from those reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome from any examinations may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, which could cause the market price of our securities to decline.As of March 31, 2013, we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were realizable and that substantially all of the related valuation allowance previously established was no longer needed. This conclusion was based upon our expectation of sufficient future taxable income to fully utilize these assets. Based on our current assessment, we continue to believe that substantially all of our deferred tax assets will be realized. There is no assurance that we will attain our future expected levels of taxable income or that a valuation allowance against new or existing deferred tax assets will not be necessary in the future.We incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results.We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance for public companies of our size, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers.Certain shareholders own a majority of our outstanding common shares.As of May 24, 2013, three of our shareholders beneficially owned an aggregate of 76,065,515 of our common shares, or approximately 55.8% of the outstanding shares. In addition, one of these shareholders, Mark H. Rachesky, M.D., the beneficial owner of approximately 37.7% of our outstanding common shares, currently serves as the Chairman of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, these three shareholders, collectively, have the power to exercise substantial influence over us and on matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in our company and may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a change in control of our company.Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares, and therefore our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations.As of May 24, 2013, over 61.8% of our common shares were held beneficially by certain individuals and institutional investors who each had ownership of greater than 5% of our common shares. We also filed a resale registration statement to enable certain shareholders who received our common shares in connection with our acquisition of Summit in January 2012 and certain holders of debt convertible into our common shares, to resell our common shares. Sales by such individuals and institutional investors of a substantial number of shares of our common shares into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares, which could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common shares or debt that is convertible into our common shares.New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain morecomplex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers.On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals,” in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We will have to diligence whether such minerals are used in the manufacture of our products. However, the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals if they 33Table of Contentsare found to be used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. The first report is due on May 31, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year. However, in October 2012, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and the Business Roundtable filed a petition challenging the adoption of the rules by the SEC. It is presently unclear if this challenge will delay the effectiveness of the rule.Our online activities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to privacy and child protection, which, if violated, could subject us to an increased risk of litigation and regulatory actions.In addition to our company websites and applications, we use third-party applications, websites, and social media platforms to promote our projects and engage consumers, as well as monitor and collect certain information about users of our online forums. A variety of laws and regulations have been adopted over the last several years aimed at protecting children using the internet such as the Children's Online Privacy and Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”). COPPA sets forth, among other things, a number of restrictions on what website operators can present to children under the age of 13 and what information can be collected from them. There are also a variety of laws and regulations governing individual privacy and the protection and use of information collected from such individuals, particularly in relation to an individual's personally identifiable information (e.g., credit card numbers). Many foreign countries have adopted similar laws governing individual privacy, including safeguards which relate to the interaction with children. If our online activities were to violate any applicable current or future laws and regulations, we could be subject to litigation and regulatory actions, including fines and other penalties.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.Not applicable.