risk factors found under the heading “Risk Factors” found elsewhere in this report. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to the “Company,” “Lionsgate,” “we,” “us,” and “our” include reference to our subsidiaries as well. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (“Lionsgate,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is the leading next generation studio with a diversified presence in the production and distribution of motion pictures, television programming, home entertainment, family entertainment, video-on-demand and digitally delivered content. We have released approximately 18 to 20 motion pictures theatrically per year for the last three years, which include films we develop and produce in-house, as well as films that we acquire from third parties. In fiscal 2010, we intend to release approximately 10 to 12 motion pictures theatrically. Additionally, we have produced approximately 69 hours of television programming on average for the last three years, primarily prime time television series for the cable and broadcast networks. In fiscal 2010, we intend to produce approximately 70 hours of television programming. We currently distribute our library of approximately 8,000 motion picture titles and approximately 4,000 television episodes and programs directly to retailers, video rental stores, and pay and free television channels in the United States (the “U.S.”), Canada, the United Kingdom (the “UK”) and Ireland, through various digital media platforms, and indirectly to other international markets through our subsidiaries and various third parties. We also plan to distribute our library through our newest platforms, TV Guide Network and TV Guide Online. In order to maximize our profit, we attempt to maintain a disciplined approach to acquisition, production and distribution of projects by balancing our financial risks against the probability of commercial success for each project. A key element of this strategy is to invest in or acquire individual properties, including films and television programs, libraries, and entertainment studios and companies which enhance our competitive position in the industry, generate significant long-term returns and build a diversified foundation for future growth. As part of this strategy, we have acquired, integrated and/or consolidated into our business the following: • TV Guide Network, one of the 30 most widely distributed general entertainment cable networks in the U.S., including TV Guide Network On Demand and TV Guide Online (www.tvguide.com), a leading online navigational tool and provider of television listings and video and other entertainment content (acquired in February 2009 and an interest sold in May 2009); • Mandate Pictures, LLC (“Mandate Pictures”), a worldwide independent film producer, financier and distributor (acquired in September 2007); • Maple Pictures Corp. (“Maple Pictures”), a Canadian film, television and home video distributor (effective in July 2007); • Debmar-Mercury, LLC (“Debmar-Mercury”), a leading independent syndicator of film and television packages (acquired in July 2006); • Redbus Film Distribution Ltd. and Redbus Pictures (collectively, “Redbus” and currently, Lions Gate UK Ltd. (“Lionsgate UK”)), an independent UK film distributor, which provides us the ability to self-distribute our motion pictures in the UK and Ireland and included the acquisition of the Redbus library of approximately 130 films (acquired in October 2005); • Certain of the film assets and accounts receivable of Modern Entertainment, Ltd., a licensor of film rights to DVD distributors, broadcasters and cable networks (acquired in August 2005); • Artisan Entertainment, Inc. (“Artisan Entertainment”), a diversified motion picture, family and home entertainment company (acquired in December 2003); and • Trimark Holdings, Inc., a worldwide distributor of entertainment content (acquired in October 2000). As part of this strategy, we also have acquired ownership interests in the following: • Horror Entertainment, LLC (“FEARnet”), a multiplatform programming and content service provider (acquired in October 2006); • NextPoint, Inc. (“Break.com”), an online video entertainment service provider (acquired in June 2007); 3 Table of Contents • Roadside Attractions, LLC (“Roadside”), an independent theatrical distribution company (acquired in July 2007); • Elevation Sales Limited (“Elevation”), a UK based home entertainment distributor (acquired in July 2007); and • Studio 3 Partners LLC (“EPIX”), a joint venture entered into to create a premium television channel and subscription video-on-demand service (entered into in April 2008). All of our investments and acquisitions support our strategy of diversifying our company in an attempt to create a multiplatform global industry leader in entertainment. Our Industry Motion Pictures General. According to the Motion Picture Association of America’s U.S. Theatrical Market: 2008 Statistics, domestic box office grew to another historic high of approximately $9.8 billion in 2008, compared to approximately $9.6 billion in 2007, a 1.7% increase. Although it fluctuates from year to year, the domestic motion picture exhibition industry has generally grown in revenues and attendance over the past 10 years. Worldwide box office, which has grown approximately 17% in the past five years, also reached an all time high of approximately $28.1 billion in 2008, compared to approximately $26.7 billion in 2007, a 5.2% increase. Domestic theatrical admissions were approximately 1.4 billion in 2008, down 2.6% from 2007. Competition. Major studios have historically dominated the motion picture industry. The term “major studios” is generally regarded in the entertainment industry to mean Paramount Pictures Corporation, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., Universal Pictures, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures and Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc. These studios have historically produced and distributed the majority of theatrical motion pictures released annually in the U.S. Competitors less diversified than the “major studios” include DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc (“MGM”). These “independent” motion picture production companies, including many smaller production companies, have also played an important role in the worldwide feature film market. Independent films have gained wider market approval and increased share of overall box office receipts in recent years. Lionsgate is a diversified next generation studio that competes directly with both major studios and independents in its various businesses, although it operates with a different business model and cost structure than the major studios. Product Life Cycle. In general, the economic life of a motion picture consists of its exploitation in theaters and in ancillary markets such as home entertainment, pay-per-view, digital rentals, pay television, broadcast television, foreign and other markets. Successful motion pictures may continue to play in theaters for more than three months following their initial release. Concurrent with their release in the U.S., motion pictures are generally released in Canada and may also be released in one or more other foreign markets. After the initial theatrical release, distributors seek to maximize revenues by releasing movies in sequential release date windows, which are generally exclusive against other non-theatrical distribution channels: Typical Film Release Windows* Months After Approximate Release Period Initial Release Release Period Theatrical — 0-3 months Home entertainment/DVD/Blu-ray/digital (1st cycle) 3-6 months 1-3 months Video-on-demand, pay-per-view and digital rental 4-8 months 3-4 months Pay television 9-12 months** 18 months Network (free and basic) 27-30 months 48-72 months Licensing and merchandising Concurrent Ongoing All international releasing Concurrent Ongoing * These patterns may not be applicable to every film, and may change with the emergence of new technologies. ** First pay television window. 4 Table of Contents Home Entertainment Home entertainment distribution involves the marketing, promotion and sale and/or lease of DVDs and Blu-ray discs to wholesalers and retailers who then sell or rent the DVDs and Blu-ray discs to consumers for private viewing and through various digital media platforms (i.e., electronic sell-through or “EST”). Past growth in the home entertainment sector has been driven by increased DVD and Blu-ray penetration, although 2008 marked a year of declined consumer spend for home entertainment. According to estimates from Adams Media Research, packaged home entertainment spend totaled just under $23 billion in 2008, down 6% from 2007, with about 100 million DVD households in the U.S. at year end. Declining box office-to-DVD conversion rates and weakness in the overall economy have been cited as reasons for this decline in spend. However, growth is anticipated to resume in upcoming years from Blu-ray and other technological enhancements including EST, enhanced video and audio quality, and special features such as inclusion of previously-deleted scenes, film commentaries and “behind the scenes” footage. The continued increase in digital delivery of content is also expected to foster long-term growth of the overall home entertainment business. Television Programming The market for television programming is composed primarily of the broadcast television networks (such as ABC, CBS, CW, Fox and NBC), pay and basic cable networks (such as AMC, HBO, MTV, Showtime, Starz, TV Guide Network, VH1 and USA Network) and syndicators of first-run programming (such as Sony Pictures Television, CBS Paramount Distribution and ABC Studios) which license programs on a station-by-station basis. Continued growth in the cable and satellite television markets has driven increased demand for nearly all genres of television programming. Key drivers will include the success of the cable industry’s bundled services, increased average revenue per user, reduced number of participants discontinuing services and accelerated ad spend growth. Increased capacity for channels on upgraded digital cable systems and satellite television has led to the launch of new networks seeking programming to compete with traditional broadcast networks as well as other existing networks. Cable and Satellite Television Distribution The cable and satellite television industry is comprised primarily of cable and satellite multiple system operators (“MSOs”) that provide cable and satellite television service to their subscribers, and cable and satellite channels that provide programming content to the system operators for distribution to their subscribers. The operators generally pay a per subscriber carriage fee for the right to distribute a channel on their system with the highest fees going to those channels with the most viewers. Operators seek to create a mix of channels that will be attractive to their subscriber base to gain new subscribers and to reduce subscriber turnover. Cable and satellite channels are generally more clearly branded than broadcast networks and provide content that reflects those brands. Branding helps the channels target a more specific demographic so that they can better attract advertisers seeking to reach that audience. Digital Media Growth in the digital market and EST has been driven, in part, by broadband penetration. According to MAGNA Global, in 2008, over 73 million American households used broadband to access the internet. In 2008, Adams Media Research reported that industry-wide revenue from digital delivery and EST grew a sharp 79% as broadband technology proliferated, consumer acceptance increased, and content distributors refined their models. The increase in broadband penetration will further aid in the growth of digital revenue for the home entertainment business. The Company Recent Developments Theatrical Slate Participation. On May 29, 2009, Lions Gate Entertainment Inc. (“LGEI“) and Lions Gate Films, Inc. (“LGF”), both wholly-owned subsidiaries, terminated our theatrical slate participation arrangement with Pride Pictures, LLC (“Pride”), an unrelated entity. The arrangement was evidenced by, among other documents, that certain Master Covered Picture Purchase Agreement (the “Master Picture Purchase Agreement”) between LGF and LG Film Finance I, LLC (“FilmCo”) and that certain Limited Liability Company Agreement (the “FilmCo Operating Agreement”) for FilmCo by and between LGEI and Pride, each dated as of May 25, 2007 and amended on January 30, 2008. Under the arrangement, Pride contributed, in general, 50% of our production, acquisition, marketing and distribution costs of theatrical feature films and participated in a pro rata portion of the pictures’ net profits or losses similar to a co-production arrangement based on the portion of costs funded.. Amounts provided from Pride were reflected as a participation liability. In late 2008, the administrative agent for the senior lenders under Pride’s senior credit facility took the position, among others, that the senior lenders did not have an obligation to continue to fund under the senior credit facility because the conditions precedent to funding set forth in the senior credit facility could not be satisfied. The Company was not a party to the credit facility. Consequently, Pride did not purchase the pictures The Spirit, My Bloody Valentine 3-D and Madea Goes To Jail. Thereafter, on April 20, 2009, after failed attempts by us to facilitate a resolution, we gave FilmCo and Pride notice that FilmCo, through Pride’s failure to make capital contributions, was in default of the Master Picture Purchase Agreement. On May 5, 2009, the representative for the Pride equity and the Pride mezzanine investor responded that the required amount was fully funded and that it 5 Table of Contents had no further obligations to make any additional capital contributions. Consequently, on May 29, 2009, we gave notice of termination of the Master Picture Purchase Agreement. Refinancing Exchange. On April 20, 2009, Lions Gate Entertainment Inc. (“LGEI”), our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into Refinancing Exchange Agreements (the “Refinancing Exchange Agreements”) with certain existing holders of LGEI’s 3.625% convertible senior subordinated secured notes due 2025 (the “Existing Notes”). Pursuant to the terms of the Refinancing Exchange Agreements, holders of the Existing Notes exchanged approximately $66.6 million aggregate principal amount of Existing Notes for new 3.625% convertible senior subordinated secured notes due 2025 (the “New 3.625% Notes”) that were issued by LGEI in the same aggregate principal amount under a new indenture (the “Indenture”) entered into by us, as guarantor, by LGEI and by an indenture trustee thereunder. LGEI will pay interest on the New 3.625% Notes on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2009. The New 3.625% Notes will mature on March 15, 2025. The New 3.625% Notes may be converted into our common shares at any time before maturity, redemption or repurchase. In addition, under certain circumstances upon a “change in control,” the holders of the New 3.625% Notes will be entitled to receive a make whole premium. The initial conversion rate of the New 3.625% Notes is 121.2121 common shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $8.25 per common share) subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. On or after March 15, 2015, LGEI may redeem the New 3.625% Notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the New 3.625% Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of redemption. LGEI may be required to repurchase the New 3.625% Notes on March 15, 2015, 2018 and 2023 or upon a “designated event,” at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the New 3.625% Notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to, but excluding, the date of repurchase. Such dates are in each case as of a date three years later than the corresponding dates in the Existing Notes. We have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the New 3.625% Notes and amounts payable upon repurchase on an unsecured senior subordinated basis. The New 3.625% Notes and related guarantee will be subordinated in right of payment to the prior payment in full of LGEI’s and our senior debt. The Existing Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture dated February 24, 2005, by and among us, LGEI and an indenture trustee thereunder. TV Guide Network Acquisitions. In January 2009, LGEI entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the “Equity Purchase Agreement”) with Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. (“Gemstar”), TV Guide Entertainment Group, Inc. (“TVGE”), its parent company, UV Corporation and Macrovision Solutions Corporation (“Macrovision”), the ultimate parent company of Gemstar, TVGE and UV Corporation, for the purchase by LGEI from UV Corporation of all of the issued and outstanding equity interests of TVGE. In connection with the transaction, Gemstar and its subsidiaries transferred, assigned and licensed to LGEI certain assets related to the TV Guide Network, one of the 30 most widely distributed general entertainment cable networks in the U.S., and related assets, including TV Guide Network On Demand, and TV Guide Online (www.tvguide.com), a leading online navigational tool and provider of television listings and video and other entertainment content. The acquisition closed February 28, 2009. The Company paid approximately $241.6 million for all of the equity interest of TV Guide Network, net of an anticipated working capital adjustment, assumed a capital lease obligation of $12.1 million in liabilities and incurred approximately $1.6 million direct transaction costs (paid to lawyers, accountants and other consultants). Sale of TV Guide Network Interest. On May 28, 2009, LGEI entered into a Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with One Equity Partners (“OEP”), the global private equity investment arm of JPMorgan Chase, pursuant to which OEP purchased 49% of LGEI’s interest in TVGE for approximately $123 million in cash. In addition, OEP reserved the option of buying another 1% of TVGE under certain circumstances. The arrangement contains joint control rights, as evidenced in an Operating Agreement as well as customary transfer restrictions and exit rights. Amended Credit Facility. In July 2008, we entered into an amended credit facility which provides for a $340 million secured revolving credit facility, of which $30 million may be utilized by two of our wholly owned foreign subsidiaries. The amended credit facility expires July 25, 2013 and bears interest at 2.25% over the “Adjusted LIBOR” rate. The availability of funds under the credit facility is limited by a borrowing base and also reduced by outstanding letters of credit. We are required to pay a monthly commitment fee based upon 0.50% per annum on the total credit facility of $340 million less the amount drawn. This amended credit facility amends and restates our original $215 million credit facility. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by collateral (as defined in the credit agreement) granted by us and certain of our subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries. The amended credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial covenants and restrict our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends and make distributions, make certain investments and acquisitions, repurchase our stock and prepay certain indebtedness, create liens, enter into agreements with affiliates, modify the nature of our business, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, transfer and sell material assets and merge or consolidate. Under the credit facility, the Company may also be subject to an event of default upon a “change in control” (as defined in the credit facility) which, among other things, includes a person or group acquiring ownership or control in excess of 20% of our common stock. 6 Table of Contents Production Motion Pictures. We have historically produced motion pictures with production budgets of $35 million or less. In fact, most of our productions have budgets of $20 million or less. Films intended for theatrical release are generally budgeted between $5 million and $35 million (although, from time to time, we have and are willing to consider larger budgets), and films intended for release directly to video or cable television are generally budgeted between $1 million and $5 million. We take a disciplined approach to film production with the goal of producing content that we can distribute to theatrical and ancillary markets, which include home video, pay and free television, on-demand services and digital media platforms, both domestically and internationally. In fiscal 2009, we produced, participated in the production of, or completed or substantially completed principal photography (the phase of film production during which most of the filming takes place) on the following motion pictures: • Tyler Perry’s The Family That Preys — Two matriarchs attempt to hold their respective families together in the face of betrayal and hidden secrets that come to light (released September 2008). • Saw V — In the fifth installment of the franchise, Detective Hoffman is seemingly the last person alive to carry on the Jigsaw legacy, but when his secret is threatened, he must go on the hunt to eliminate all loose ends (released October 2008). • My Bloody Valentine 3-D — A remake of the 1980’s cult classic in state-of-the-art 3-D. Ten years after a devastating coal mining accident, a string of gruesome murders plague a small Montana town (released January 2009). • Tyler Perry’s Madea Goes To Jail — Madea is at it again, but this time, the judges have had enough forcing Madea to learn her lesson behind bars. Regardless of the circumstances, Madea gives her riotous, trademark, never-fail advice and wisdom to her new prison friends as they learn how to let go, move on and forgive (released February 2009). • Crank: High Voltage — The further adventures of Chev Chelios. Chev is revived via a synthetic heart that needs to be recharged to stay beating, while trying to find who implanted it (released April 2009). The following motion pictures are currently in or slated for production in fiscal 2010: • Five Killers — An untouchable assassin quits the business when he meets the girl of his dreams. His trusting wife, however, has no idea about his past until they discover that a hit has been put on him, and that the hired killers may actually be their closest friends and neighbors. Their seemingly perfect lives flipped upside down and their marriage put to the test, they discover a new level of excitement together as they team up to find and fight the killers. • Saw VI — The latest installment in the most successful horror franchise of all time. Detective Hoffman has emerged as the unchallenged successor to Jigsaw’s legacy. However, when the FBI draws closer to Hoffman, he is forced to set a game into motion, and Jigsaw’s grand scheme is finally understood. • The Next Three Days — A thriller about a married couple leading an ordinary life with their young son until the wife is suddenly arrested for murder. • Tyler Perry’s I Can Do Bad All By Myself — When Madea, America’s favorite pistol-packing grandma, catches sixteen-year-old Jennifer and her two younger brothers looting her home, she decides to take matters into her own hands and delivers the young delinquents to the only relative they have: their aunt April. • Tyler Perry’s Why Did I Get Married Too — The sequel picks back up with the couple’s annual marriage retreat. Things have changed since the last retreat. Terry and Dianne have a son and they are happier than they have ever been, but it’s not Terry that is making Dianne happy. Pat and Gavin who generally helm the strongest marriage share a noticeable distance during the retreat. Meanwhile, Marcus and Angela are still at each others throat. Shelia whom was previously married to Mike is now married to Troy, a loving and caring man who feels very insecure when he can’t find a job to support his new wife and baby. Each couple shares their joys and pains of marriage at the same time, being there for one another through their ups and downs. • Warrior — A modern day Rocky: a story of two estranged brothers competing for the love of their father, the respect of their peers, the survival of their families and the redemption of their past. Our production team attempts to produce films with disciplined budgets that have commercial potential. First, our production division reviews hundreds of scripts, looking for material that will attract top talent (primarily actors and directors). We then actively develop such scripts, working with the major talent agencies and producers to recruit talent that appeals to the film’s target audience. We believe the commercial and/or critical success of our films should enhance our reputation and continue 7 Table of Contents to give us access to top talent, scripts and projects. We often develop films in targeted niche markets in which we can achieve a sustainable competitive advantage, as evidenced by the successes of our horror films, including the Saw franchise, and our urban films, such as Tyler Perry’s Madea Goes To Jail. The decision whether to “greenlight” (or proceed with production of) a film is a diligent process that involves numerous key executives of the Company. Generally, the production division presents projects to a committee comprised of the heads of our production, theatrical distribution, home entertainment, international distribution, legal and finance departments. In this process, scripts are evaluated for both artistic merit and commercial viability. The committee considers the entire package, including the script, the talent that may be attached or pursued and the production division’s initial budget. They also discuss talent and story elements that could make the project more successful. Next, the heads of domestic and international distribution prepare estimates of projected revenues and the costs of marketing and distributing the film. Our finance and legal professionals then review the projections and financing options, and the committee decides whether the picture is worth pursuing by balancing the risk of a production against its potential for financial success or failure. The final “greenlight” decision is made by our corporate senior management team, headed by our President of the Motion Picture Group and our Chief Executive Officer. We typically seek to mitigate the financial risk associated with film production by negotiating co-production agreements (which provide for joint efforts and cost-sharing between us and one or more third-party production companies) and pre-selling international distribution rights on a selective basis (which refers to licensing the rights to distribute a film in one or more media, in one or more specific territories prior to completion of the film). We often attempt to minimize our production exposure by structuring agreements with talent that provide for them to participate in the financial success of the motion picture in exchange for reducing guaranteed amounts to be paid, regardless of the film’s success (which we refer to as “up-front payments”). In addition, we use certain Canadian tax credits, German tax structures, UK subsidy programs, domestic state tax incentives (in such states as New Mexico, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania) and other structures that may help reduce our financial risk. Television. During fiscal 2009, we delivered approximately 94 episodes of domestic television programming. Domestic television programming may include one-hour and half-hour dramas, mini-series, animated series and reality and non-fiction programming. In fiscal 2010, we intend to have at least six series on the air, comprising approximately 73 episodes, and may also have mini-series and limited series slated for production. Series. In fiscal 2009, we delivered the following: • 13 episodes of the second season of the Emmy, Golden Globe and Peabody Award-winning series Mad Men, a one-hour drama starring Jon Hamm for the AMC Network; • 13 episodes of the fourth season of the series Weeds, a half-hour comedy starring Mary-Louise Parker, Elizabeth Perkins and Kevin Nealon for Showtime; • 13 episodes of the first season of Crash, a one-hour drama series based on the Academy Award winning Best Picture, for Starz Entertainment; • 13 episodes of Fear Itself, a one-hour fright anthology series for NBC and FEARNet.com; • 8 episodes of Scream Queens, a reality show for VH1; • a pilot of Blue Mountain State, a half-hour comedy for Spike TV; • a pilot of Nurse Jackie, a half-hour comedy starring Edie Falco for Showtime; • 12 episodes of Paris Hilton: My New BFF, a reality show for MTV (through our joint venture with Ish Entertainment, LLC (“Ish”)); • 10 episodes of 50 Cent: The Money and the Power, a reality show for MTV (through our joint venture with Ish); and • 10 episodes of T.I.’s Road To Redemption, a reality show starring rapper T.I. for MTV (through our joint venture with Ish). In fiscal 2010, we intend to deliver the following: • 13 episodes of the third season of Mad Men; 8 Table of Contents • 13 episodes of the fifth season of Weeds; • 13 episodes of the second season of Crash; • 12 episodes of the first season of Nurse Jackie for Showtime; • 12 episodes of the first season of Blue Mountain State for Spike TV; and • 10 episodes of Paris Hilton: My New BFF, Season 2 (through our joint venture with Ish). Animation. We are involved in the development, acquisition, production and distribution of a number of animation projects for full theatrical release, television and DVD release. DVD Production — We have delivered seven direct-to-home video animated movies with Marvel Entertainment Inc. (“Marvel”) which include Ultimate Avengers, Ultimate Avengers 2, The Invincible Iron Man, Doctor Strange, Next Avengers: Heroes of Tomorrow, Hulk vs. Thor/Wolverine and Thor, Tales of Asgard, and are in production on an additional title with Marvel, Planet Hulk, which is scheduled to be released in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. An additional production, the DVD sequel to the theatrical animated film Happily Never After, was delivered and released in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Additionally, in fiscal 2009, in partnership with Chris D’Angelo Productions and LeapFrog Enterprises, Inc. (“LeapFrog”), we began the production of new animated LeapFrog entertainment releases. The first two releases in this partnership, LeapFrog: Let’s Go to School and LeapFrog: Math Adventure to the Moon, are scheduled to be released in the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2010, respectively, and another two still untitled releases are currently in development. Television Production — We have delivered 26 half-hours and five films of a comedic action adventure series (based on the well-known franchise Speed Racer) to Nickelodeon Networks, which is being produced by Animation Collective of New York City. All 26 episodes aired in fiscal 2009. Additionally, the first DVD of Speed Racer, The Next Generation was released in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the second DVD was released in the third quarter of 2009 and the third DVD is scheduled to be released in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. We are handling international sales, overseeing merchandising and licensing as well as distributing the DVD of this adventure series. Nickelodeon Networks has recently ordered a second 26 half-hour season and one additional film of the adventure series. Theatrical Films — We are currently in co-production on Alpha and Omega, an animated film starring Justin Long, Hayden Panettiere, Christina Ricci, Danny Glover and Dennis Hopper with our partner Crest Animation. The film is the first picture developed under a previously announced co-finance deal with Crest Animation and is from the creator of Open Season, a Sony Pictures Animation CGI film. The film is slated for release in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Television Movies, Mini-Series and Specials. From time to time, we also are involved in the development, acquisition, production and distribution of television content in the movie-of-the-week, mini-series and reality special formats. During fiscal 2009, we distributed Street Dogs of LA, a two-hour documentary for Animal Planet, and Guys and Divas: Battle of the High School Musical, a two-hour documentary for Showtime. We have also partnered with Zed, a mobile content company, to develop and launch Zed’s multiplatform reality program Instantly Rich in such territories as the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Music. Our music business creatively oversees music for our theatrical and television slate, as well as the music needs of other areas within our business, leveraging its core businesses to grow our music publishing asset. Our music strategy is to creatively service the music needs of the Company while building a business that focuses on healthy growth areas of the music business, specifically, music publishing assets and live projects. Our music publishing revenue has been growing steadily for the past three years. Unlike major record labels, our music revenue is centered around performance revenue from the airing of our theatrical and television slate on cable television, insulating us from the downturn that labels are experiencing due to decreased record sales due to piracy. In fiscal 2009, we released approximately 20 soundtracks and scores, including soundtracks for our series Weeds and Mad Men, as well as the soundtrack for Californication, a series airing on Showtime, representing three of the five 2009 Golden Globe nominees for “Best TV Series.” Our music business is currently in development on several live projects which exploit our intellectual property, including Mad Men Revue, a revue based on our series Mad Men. We intend to release approximately 20 soundtracks and scores in fiscal 2010. 9 Table of Contents Distribution Domestic Theatrical Distribution. We distribute motion pictures directly to U.S. movie theaters. Over the past 10 years, our releases have included the following in-house productions or co-productions: Title Principal Actors Akeelah and the Bee Keke Palmer, Laurence Fishburne, Angela Bassett Crank Jason Statham, Amy Smart Employee of the Month Dane Cook, Jessica Simpson, Dax Shepherd Godsend Robert DeNiro, Greg Kinnear, Rebecca Romijn Stamos Good Luck Chuck Jessica Alba, Dane Cook Grizzly Man Documentary Monster’s Ball Halle Berry, Billy Bob Thornton My Best Friend’s Girl Kate Hudson, Dane Cook My Bloody Valentine 3-D Jensen Ackles, Jamie King Pride Bernie Mac, Terrence Howard Punisher: War Zone Ray Stevenson, Julie Benz, Dominic West The Eye Jessica Alba The Punisher John Travolta, Thomas Jane The Spirit Gabriel Macht, Samuel Jackson, Scarlett Johansson, Eva Mendes The U.S. vs. John Lennon Documentary Saw II Donnie Wahlberg, Tobin Bell, Shawnee Smith Saw III Tobin Bell, Shawnee Smith, Bahar Soomekh, Angus MacFayden Saw IV Tobin Bell Saw V Tobin Bell, Scott Patterson Tyler Perry’s Diary of a Mad Black Woman Tyler Perry, Steve Harris, Shemar Moore Tyler Perry’s Madea’s Family Reunion Tyler Perry Tyler Perry’s Meet The Browns Tyler Perry, Angela Bassett Tyler Perry’s Why Did I Get Married? Tyler Perry, Janet Jackson Tyler Perry’s The Family That Preys Tyler Perry, Alfre Woodard, Kathie Bates Tyler Perry’s Madea Goes To Jail Tyler Perry, Keke Palmer, Keisha Knight Pulliam, Derek Luke War Jet Li, Jason Statham Motion pictures that we have acquired and distributed in this same time period include the following: Title Principal Actors 3:10 to Yuma Russell Crowe, Christian Bale Bangkok Dangerous Nicolas Cage Crash Don Cheadle, Sandra Bullock, Matt Dillon, Brendan Fraser Dogma Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Chris Rock Fahrenheit 9/11 Documentary Girl With A Pearl Earring Scarlett Johannson, Colin Firth Hard Candy Patrick Wilson, Ellen Page Lord of War Nicolas Cage, Ethan Hawke, Jared Leto, Bridget Moynahan New In Town Renee Zellwegger, Harry Connick Jr. The Bank Job Jason Statham The Cooler Alec Baldwin, William H. Macy, Maria Bello The Descent Shauna Macdonald, Natalie Jackson Mendoza, Alex Reid, Saskia Mulder The Forbidden Kingdom Jet Li, Jackie Chan The Haunting In Connecticut Virginia Madsen O Julia Stiles, Mekhi Phifer Open Water Blanchard Ryan, Daniel Travis Rambo Sylvester Stallone Religulous Bill Maher Saw Danny Glover, Monica Potter, Cary Elwes Sicko Documentary Transporter 3 Jason Statham In the last 10 years, films we have distributed have earned 31 Academy Award nominations and won seven Academy Awards, and have been nominated for and won numerous Golden Globe, Screen Actors Guild, BAFTA and Independent Spirit Awards. 10 Table of Contents We have released approximately 18 to 20 motion pictures theatrically per year for the last three years, which include films we develop and produce in-house, as well as films that we acquire from third parties. In fiscal 2010, we intend to release approximately 10 to 12 motion pictures theatrically, which includes our in-house productions, co-productions and acquisitions. Our approach to acquiring films for theatrical release is similar to our approach to film production. We generally seek to limit our financial exposure while adding films of quality and commercial viability to our release schedule and our video library. The decision to acquire a motion picture for theatrical release entails a process involving key executives at the Company, including those from the releasing, home entertainment and acquisitions departments, as well as corporate senior management. The team meets to discuss a film’s expected critical reaction, marketability, and potential for commercial success, as well as the cost to acquire the picture, the estimated distribution and marketing expenses (typically called “P&A” or “prints and advertising”) required to bring the film to its widest possible target audience and ancillary market potential after its theatrical release. Generally, we release films on a wide basis, typically to more than 2,000 screens nationwide. We construct release schedules taking into account moviegoer attendance patterns and competition from other studios’ scheduled theatrical releases. We use either wide or limited initial releases, depending on the film. We generally spend significantly less on P&A for a given film than a major studio and we design our marketing plans to cost-effectively reach a large audience. Our remaining fiscal 2010 theatrical release schedule may include (in anticipated order of release): Produced* Approximate Title Summary Principal Actors or Acquired Release Date Gamer In the near-future, mind control technology has taken society by storm and a multiplayer on-line game called “Slayers” allows humans control of other humans in mass-scale. Gerard Butler, John Leguizamo, Milo Ventimiglia, Kyra Sedgwick Produced September 2009 Tyler Perry’s I Can Do Bad All By Myself When Madea, America’s favorite pistol-packing grandma, catches sixteen-year-old Jennifer and her two younger brothers looting her home, she decides to take matters into her own hands and delivers the young delinquents to the only relative they have: their aunt April. Tyler Perry Produced September 2009 More Than A Game Five talented young basketball players from Akron, Ohio star in this remarkable true-life coming of age story about friendship and loyalty in the face of great adversity. LeBron James Acquired October 2009 Saw VI The latest installment in the most successful horror franchise of all time. Special Agent Strahm is dead, and Detective Hoffman has emerged as the unchallenged successor to Jigsaw’s legacy. However, when the FBI draws closer to Hoffman, he is forced to set a game into motion, and Jigsaw’s grand scheme is finally understood. Tobin Bell, Scott Patterson Produced October 2009 Precious: Based on the Novel PUSH by Sapphire “Precious” Jones is a high-school girl with nothing working in her favor. She is pregnant with her father’s child — for the second time. She can’t read or write, and her schoolmates tease her for being fat. Her home life is a horror, ruled by a mother who keeps her imprisoned both emotionally and physically. Precious’ instincts tell her one thing: if she’s ever going to break from the chains of ignorance, she will have to dig deeply into her own resources. Gabourey Sidibe, Mo’Nique, Paula Patton Acquired November 2009 11 Table of Contents Produced* Approximate Title Summary Principal Actors or Acquired Release Date Brothers Days after bringing his little brother Tommy home from prison, Capitan Sam Hill ships out to fight in Afghanistan where his Blackhawk is shot down and he is presumed dead. While Sam endures torture in captivity, Tommy falls in love with Sam’s wife, Grace. Just moments before he is rescued, Sam is forced to kill a fellow American soldier and he returns home with post-traumatic stress. His dark secret leads to increasingly erratic and volatile behavior that distances him his daughters and Grace. On the verge of “suicide by cop,” only Tommy can talk Sam back down to earth and only Grace can reach inside the fractured soul of this wounded American “hero”. Jake Gyllenhaal, Natalie Portman, Tobey Maguire Acquired December 2009 Daybreakers In the year 2017, an unknown plague has transformed the world’s population into vampires. As the human population nears extinction, vampires must capture and farm every remaining human, or find a blood substitute before time runs out. However, a covert group of vampires makes a remarkable discovery, one which has the power to save the human race. Ethan Hawke, Willem Dafoe, Sam Neill Acquired January 2010 From Paris With Love A low-ranking intelligence operative working in the office of the U.S. Ambassador in France takes on more than he bargained for when he partners with a wisecracking, fast-shooting, high-ranking U.S. agent who’s been sent to Paris to stop a terrorist attack. John Travolta, Jonathan Rhys Meyers Acquired February 2010 * Includes significant participation in production. We may revise the release date of a motion picture as the production schedule changes or in such a manner as we believe is likely to maximize revenues or for other business reasons. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any of the motion pictures scheduled for release will be completed, that completion will occur in accordance with the anticipated schedule or budget, that the film will ever be released, or that the motion pictures will necessarily involve any of the creative talent listed above. Mandate Pictures. Our subsidiary, Mandate Pictures, is a full service production and financing company. In fiscal 2009, Mandate Pictures’ titles that received wide theatrical releases included Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay, the follow-up to the 2004 comedy hit released by New Line, as well as Nick and Norah’s Infinite Playlist, a romantic comedy directed by Peter Sollett, starring Michael Cera and Kat Dennings. Previous films produced by Mandate Pictures include the box office sensation and Academy Award-winning film, Juno, starring Ellen Page, Michael Cera, Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman, Zach Helm’s Mr. Magorium’s Wonder Emporium, starring Dustin Hoffman and Natalie Portman, and Marc Forster’s Stranger Than Fiction, starring Will Ferrell, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Emma Thompson. Mandate Pictures’ growing feature slate includes The Baster, starring Jennifer Aniston and Jason Bateman, and Drew Barrymore’s directorial debut Whip It, starring Academy Award nominee Ellen Page. Mandate Pictures also maintains a partnership with Ghost House Pictures (“Ghost House”), formed with filmmakers Sam Raimi and Rob Tapert as a production label dedicated to the financing, development and production of films in the horror/thriller genre. Under this partnership, Mandate Pictures produced leading filmmaker Sam Raimi’s (Spider-Man franchise, The Evil Dead) Drag Me To Hell for Universal Studios, starring Allison Lohman and Justin Long. Films previously released under the Ghost House banner 12 Table of Contents include 30 Days of Night, The Grudge I and II, The Messengers and Boogeyman, all of which opened at number one at the domestic box office. Mandate Pictures’ other filmmaker relationships include production deals with Mr. Mudd, the production company headed up by partner-producers Lianne Halfon, Russell Smith and award-winning actor, director and producer John Malkovich, Academy Award-winning filmmaker Steven Zaillian’s Film Rites, writer/director Zach Helm’s Gang of Two production company, and Lindsay Doran’s production company, Three Strange Angels. International Sales and Distribution. The primary components of our international business are, both on a territory by territory basis through third parties or directly through our international divisions, (i) the licensing and sale of rights in all media of our in-house theatrical titles, (ii) the licensing and sale of catalog product or libraries of acquired titles (such as those of Artisan Entertainment and Modern Times Group), and (iii) direct distribution. Mandate International — We sell rights in all media on a territory by territory basis through our subsidiary, Mandate International, LLC (“Mandate International”), of (i) our in-house theatrical titles, as well as titles from Mandate Pictures and Ghost House, (ii) our catalog product or libraries of acquired titles, and (iii) theatrical product produced by third parties such as Relativity Media, Gold Circle Films, LLC and other independent producers. We often pre-sell international territories to cover a significant portion of the production budget or acquisition cost on new releases. We also leverage our infrastructure to generate revenue through a sales agency business for third party product. Recent high profile films sold by Mandate International include: The Men Who Stare at Goats, starring George Clooney, The Baster, The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus, starring Heath Ledger, Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Colin Farrell, Whip It, Five Killers, Brothers, Season of the Witch, starring Nicolas Cage, The Spy Next Door, starring Jackie Chan, Dear John, starring Channing Tatum and Amanda Seyfried, and the horror sensations Saw V and My Bloody Valentine 3-D. Lionsgate UK — We self-distribute our motion pictures in the UK and Ireland through our subsidiary, Lionsgate UK. Since 2005, Lionsgate UK has released all of our U.S. theatrical productions and since 2008, all of Mandate International’s productions, both of which account for approximately 75% of its annual film slate. In addition, Lionsgate UK is active both in the acquisition of independent feature films purely for its UK market as well as the development and co-production of two to three films per year. Recent independent acquisitions include The Lives of Others, The Bank Job and The Edge of Love. Upcoming acquisitions for fiscal 2010 include The Imaginarium of Dr. Parnassus, Bad Lieutenant, starring Nicholas Cage, and British thriller Harry Brown, starring Michael Caine. Elevation, our joint venture with Optimum Releasing/StudioCanal, handles the joint sales and distribution of DVD product for Lionsgate UK. Television — We continue to expand our television business internationally through sales and distribution of original Lionsgate television series, third party television programming and format acquisitions. For instance, in fiscal 2009, we delivered eight episodes of Paris Hilton’s British Best Friend in the UK (through our joint venture with Ish). Lionsgate Australia — Our Australian subsidiary, Lionsgate Australia Pty Ltd. (“Lionsgate Australia”), oversees distribution of productions and third party acquisitions in Australia and New Zealand. Canada — We distribute our motion picture, television and home video product in Canada through Maple Pictures. Home Video Distribution. Our U.S. video distribution operation aims to exploit our filmed and television content library of approximately 12,000 motion picture titles and television episodes and programs. We have established a track record for building on the awareness generated from our theatrical releases and have developed strong positions in children’s, fitness, horror, urban and teen comedy products. We increased our overall market share of combined sell-through and rental consumer spend to approximately 7% for calendar year 2008 and we have further increased our market share to over 8% for calendar year 2009 to date. In fiscal 2009, we had five theatrical releases on DVD debut at number one or two with Rambo, Tyler Perry’s Meet the Browns, Tyler Perry’s Family That Preys, Forbidden Kingdom, and Saw V, and the top six fitness releases of the year, Jillian Michael’s 30 Day Shred, The Biggest Loser - Cardio Max, Dancing with the Stars Latin Cardio Dance, The Biggest Loser - Boot Camp, The Biggest Loser — Weight Loss Yoga, and The Biggest Loser - Power Sculpt. Our children’s non-theatrical DVD share in fiscal 2009 was approximately 13%, compared to approximately 8% for fiscal 2008. Additionally, over the past year, our Saw franchise continued as the number one horror franchise in DVD history. According to Adams Media Research, we also continue to achieve the highest box-office to DVD conversion rate in the industry, maintaining a more than 20% premium over our competition. Blu-ray continues to grow as a contributor to our home entertainment business. During fiscal 2009, we held a near 6% market share of Blu-ray revenue as well as attained a box-office to Blu-ray conversion rate of nearly 50% above that of the industry. Blu-ray currently represents over 15% of revenue from our new theatrical releases. We expect this percentage to continue to grow as overall consumer revenue from Blu-ray is projected to grow significantly in the next year. 13 Table of Contents We directly distribute to the rental market through Blockbuster, Inc. (“Blockbuster”), Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”), Movie Gallery, Inc., Rentrak Corporation and indirectly though Redbox Automated Retail, LLC. We also distribute or sell directly to mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), K-Mart, Best Buy Co. Inc., Target Corporation and Costco Wholesale Corporation, and others who buy large volumes of our DVDs and Blu-ray discs to sell directly to consumers. Sales to Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 38% of net home entertainment revenue in fiscal 2009, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. In addition to our theatrical releases each year, we also acquire approximately 65 titles annually that have commercial potential in video and ancillary markets, adding a total of approximately 75 to 80 films to our library each year. We also distribute successful television product on video, including the Saturday Night Live product currently in our library, the first season of the Emmy award winning AMC series Mad Men, the first, second and third seasons of the Emmy award winning Showtime series Weeds, the fourth and fifth seasons of the hit comedy series Moonlighting, the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth seasons of the NBC hit comedy series Will and Grace, the entire catalog of Little House on the Prairie, the first season of the Showtime series Secret Diary of A Call Girl, and certain Disney-ABC Domestic Television series and Comcast Entertainment Group series. We also released direct-to-video titles including Thomas Kinkade’s The Christmas Cottage, Bait Shop starring Billy Ray Cyrus and Bill Engvall, as well as sequels from previous theatrical releases including Belly 2, Still Waiting and Happily Ever After 2. We released the following limited theatrical films on DVD: Beer for my Horses starring Toby Keith, Repo the Genetic Opera, and the Clive Barker adaptation of Midnight Meat Train. Our relationship with Tyler Perry continues to grow. In addition to the theatrical releases on DVD of Tyler Perry’s Meet the Browns and Tyler Perry’s Family That Preys, we also released Tyler Perry’s The Marriage Counselor direct-to-video and distributed the first, second and third volumes of the TBS hit television series Tyler Perry’s House of Payne, with a fourth volume scheduled to be released in late June 2009. The Tyler Perry franchise has sold over 34 million DVDs in the past four years. In fiscal 2009, we continued our relationship with Marvel pursuant to which we were granted the right to distribute 26 action-packed half-hour episodes of Wolverine & The X-Men (a co-production with Toonz Entertainment Pte Ltd., Singapore and First Serve International Ltd.), a brand new animated series that began airing on Nicktoons Network in January 2009. This follows our right to distribute up to eight original animated DVD features based on certain Marvel characters. We also have the right to exploit the pictures in other entertainment media domestically and internationally, including pay and free television and video-on-demand. In the 2009 fiscal year, we released the fifth and sixth titles in the series — Next Avengers: Heroes of Tomorrow and Hulk vs. Thor/Wolverine, following our fiscal 2008 releases of the second, third and fourth titles in the series — Ultimate Avengers 2, The Invincible Iron Man and Dr. Strange. In fiscal 2006, we released Ultimate Avengers, the first title in the series. To date, we have sold over four million units of the Marvel animated features. In fiscal 2009, we also distributed approximately 33 Spanish-language titles under our agreement with Xenon Pictures, Inc. Our fitness product remains competitive. With over 26% market share in fitness DVD revenue, we have a lineup that includes top-sellers Denise Austin, Jillian Michaels, The Biggest Loser and Dancing With The Stars. Denise Austin remains the largest fitness franchise in the DVD era. We continue to grow our direct-to-video horror genre with our arrangement with Ghost House Underground, the film acquisitions company that extends the Ghost House brand to home entertainment. We released eight titles in fiscal 2009 including Trackman, Brotherhood, Dance of Dead, Dark Floors, Last House, No Man’s Land, Room 205 and Substitute. We expect to release approximately four to six films through the venture in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2009, we also entered into an agreement with Disney-ABC Domestic Television under which we obtained the home entertainment distribution rights to select prime time series and library titles from ABC Studios, including the first season of According to Jim, starring Jim Belushi and Courtney Thorne-Smith, the first season of Reaper, Hope & Faith, starring Kelly Ripa and Faith Ford, 8 Simple Rules...for Dating My Teenage Daughter, starring John Ritter and Katey Sagal, Boy Meets World, starring Ben Savage and Rider Strong, October Road, starring Tom Berenger and Bryan Greenberg, Kevin Hill, starring Taye Diggs, My Wife & Kids, starring Damon Wayans and Tisha Campbell, and Six Degrees starring Jay Hernandez, Bridget Moynahan and Erika Christensen. We also entered into a first-look partnership with Comcast Entertainment Group, which operates Comcast’s West Coast entertainment properties, under which we obtained the home entertainment distribution rights to popular series airing on E! Entertainment Television, The Style Network and G4 including the tanning salon reality series Sunset Tan along with the popular Keeping Up with the Kardashians, Snoop Dogg’s Father Hood, and Kimora: Life In The Fab Lane. Our family entertainment division, which targets the youth audience, continues to distribute the home entertainment rights to HIT Entertainment Inc.’s extensive portfolio of award-winning children’s programming, including iconic franchises such as Thomas & 14 Table of Contents Friends, Bob the Builder, Barney, Angelina Ballerina and Fireman Sam, along with newly acquired brands such as Fifi & the Flowertots and Roary the Racing Car from Chapman Entertainment, Aardman Animations’ award-winning Wallace & Gromit which includes four television half-hour episodes, and Shaun the Sheep, as well as The Jim Henson Company’s Fraggle Rock and additional family titles from the Henson library. Additionally, we continue to produce and distribute direct-to-video family-oriented feature films for educational toy maker LeapFrog. We also distribute the new action-packed Speed Racer, The Next Generation, a 26 episode television series which we produced for Nickelodeon Networks, and continue to distribute the PBS series Clifford the Big Red Dog from Scholastic Entertainment, The Doodlebops, the popular children’s band featured in its own series on the Disney Channel, along with a catalog of Classic Speed Racer, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles releases, and the Bratz brand,. We also extended our relationship with American Greetings Properties, a creator, manufacturer and distributor of social expression products, by acquiring the exclusive North American home entertainment distribution rights to numerous titles based on the Care Bears, including distribution rights to 48 episodes of the all-new Care Bears television series, Care Bears: Adventures In Care-A-Lot, along with an all-new Care Bears CGI-animated movie expected to launch in the fall of 2009. We also acquired the home entertainment distribution rights to the CBS television series based on the all-new American Greetings Property, Sushi Pack, which follows four pieces of sushi and a wad of wasabi who are brought to life with special powers to help rid the world of evil. We entered into a distribution agreement with leading consumer entertainment products company MGA Entertainment for the ever-popular Little Tikes brand. Under the terms of the multiyear deal, we secured the home entertainment distribution rights, including electronic sell-through and video-on-demand, for the U.S. and Canada to product created under the all-new Animated Little Tikes Entertainment label, which consists of four CGI-animated stories. Television Syndication. We distribute television programming through our subsidiary, Debmar-Mercury. Acquired in 2006, Debmar-Mercury was initially founded in 2003 to facilitate the domestic distribution of the Comedy Central hit South Park. Currently, Debmar-Mercury produces and distributes The Wendy Williams Show (debuting in July 2009), distributes Tyler Perry’s House of Payne and spinoff Meet the Browns, and distributes strips Family Feud, South Park and True Hollywood Story, as well as weeklies American Chopper, Deadliest Catch and The Dead Zone. Additionally, in September 2007, Debmar-Mercury established a London-based international television distribution unit focused on acquiring international formats for U.S. and worldwide distribution, as well as licensing U.S. television formats to the global market. Debmar-Mercury also distributes a movie library featuring our titles as well as those from Revolution Studios. Pay and Free Television Distribution. We have over 600 titles in active distribution in the domestic cable, free and pay television markets. We sell our library titles and new product to major cable channels such as Showtime, USA Network, FX, Turner Networks, Starz Entertainment, Family Channel, Disney Channel, Cartoon Network and IFC, through which we have an agreement for a package of 70 of our feature films. Commencing August 1, 2006, we began direct distribution of pay-per-view and video-on-demand to cable, satellite and internet providers. Additionally, in April 2008, we formed a joint venture with Viacom Inc. (“Viacom”), its Paramount Pictures unit (“Paramount Pictures”), and MGM to create a premium television channel and video-on-demand service named EPIX, for our theatrical releases after January 1, 2009. Upon its expected launch in the fall of 2009, the joint venture will also provide us with an additional platform to distribute our library of motion picture titles and television episodes and programs. Electronic Distribution. We also deliver our content through a broad spectrum of digital media platforms. We have digital delivery arrangements for television and movie library product with Apple iTunes, Amazon.com, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Blockbuster, Netflix, Movielink, LLC, Hulu LLC (“Hulu”) and Vudu, Inc. To date, we have distributed over 500 films and television episodes through these digital channels. We also operate FEARnet in connection with partners Comcast Corp. and Sony Pictures Entertainment, a branded multiplatform programming and content service provider of horror genre films. We entered into a five-year license agreement with FEARnet for U.S. territories and possessions, whereby we license content to FEARnet for video-on-demand and broadband exhibition. Further, we own an interest in Break.com, a leading viral marketing company that creates new opportunities for showcasing the Company’s feature films and television programming. We have also partnered with YouTube to create new branded “Lionsgate” channels which enable us to post full length films and television episodes and to post promotional scenes from our film and television libraries. In addition to sharing advertising revenue from the channel, a banner on the page leads to our online shop, where our films and shows highlighted in the promotional scenes are available for purchase as DVDs or Blu-ray discs in digital form. TV Guide Network. TV Guide Network offers entertainment and television guidance-related programming as well as localized program listings and descriptions primarily in the U.S. TV Guide Network is typically included in a basic or expanded basic viewing package offered by MSOs to their subscribers, and is usually available in both analog and digital channel lineups. In the majority of cable television homes, the screen for TV Guide Network is divided into two components. The lower portion of the screen contains a scrolling program guide, which is color-coded by genre and displays updated local program listings information. This customized text portion of the screen contains viewing times, channel numbers, network identification, program titles, weather, movie descriptions, 15 Table of Contents program ratings and ordering instructions for pay-per-view and, where available, video-on-demand services, for channel lineups in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The upper portion of the screen contains programming dedicated to the world of television and entertainment. In satellite homes, TV Guide Network’s programming is shown full-screen, without a scrolling program guide. TV Guide Network is currently producing approximately 14 hours per week of new and original content from its studio in Hollywood, California and through third party producers. As of December 31, 2008, TV Guide Network was distributed to 82.7 million households, as measured by Nielsen Media Research. TV Guide Network generates revenue primarily from advertising and carriage fees paid by MSOs. We plan to continue to evolve TV Guide Network into an entertainment destination that features high-quality original programming relating to the world of television, entertainment news and celebrities. As of May 22, 2009, TV Guide Network had 293 full time equivalent employees, all of whom were located in the U.S. TV Guide Online. TV Guide Online (www.tvguide.com), a leading online provider of television listings information and entertainment and video content, features a combination of entertainment news, video programming, celebrity information, localized channel listings, editorial guidance, community features and search features. The tvguide.com search engine provides consumers with a comprehensive experience by integrating online video with the breadth and depth of TV Guide Network’s database of listings, show and episode descriptions, news, reviews, ratings, user blogs, groups, message boards, photos, and other contextual information, as well as video clips from TV Guide Network and certain third party networks. According to Nielsen/Net Ratings, TV Guide Online averaged 5.0 million unduplicated unique users per month for the year ended December 31, 2008. TV Guide Online generates revenue primarily from advertising. Intellectual Property We are currently using a number of trademarks including “LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT,” “LIONS GATE HOME ENTERTAINMENT,” “ARTISAN HOME ENTERTAINMENT,” “FAMILY HOME ENTERTAINMENT,” “TRIMARK HOME VIDEO,” “DIRTY DANCING,” “THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT” and “RESERVOIR DOGS” in connection with our domestic home video distribution, “LIONS GATE FILMS,” “LGF FILMS,” “ARTISAN ENTERTAINMENT,” “TRIMARK PICTURES,” “GHOST HOUSE PICTURES,” “GRINDSTONE ENTERTAINMENT GROUP,” “MANDATE PICTURES” and “MANDATE INTERNATIONAL” in connection with films distributed domestically and licensed internationally and “LIONS GATE TELEVISION,” “TRIMARK TELEVISION” and “DEBMAR/MERCURY” in connection with licenses to free, pay and cable television. The trademarks “LIONSGATE,” “LIONS GATE HOME ENTERTAINMENT,” “TV GUIDE,” “TV GUIDE NETWORK,” “TV GUIDE ONLINE,” “LIONS GATE SIGNATURE SERIES,” “ARTISAN ENTERTAINMENT,” “FAMILY HOME ENTERTAINMENT,” “TRIMARK PICTURES,” “DIRTY DANCING,” “THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT” and “RESERVOIR DOGS” among others, are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We regard our trademarks as valuable assets and believe that our trademarks are an important factor in marketing our products. Copyright protection is a serious problem in the DVD and Blu-ray distribution industry because of the ease with which DVDs and Blu-ray discs may be duplicated. In the past, certain countries permitted video pirating to such an extent that we did not consider these markets viable for distribution. Video piracy continues to be prevalent across the entertainment industry. We and other video distributors have taken legal actions to enforce copyright protection when necessary. We also hold various domain names relating to our trademarks and service marks including lionsgate.com, tvguide.com and tvguidenetwork.com. Competition Television and Motion Picture Distribution Television and motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. We face competition from companies within the entertainment business and from alternative forms of leisure entertainment, such as travel, sporting events, outdoor recreation, video games, the internet and other cultural and computer-related activities. We compete with the major studios, numerous independent motion picture and television production companies, television networks and pay television systems for the acquisition of literary and film properties, the services of performing artists, directors, producers and other creative and technical personnel and production financing, all of which are essential to the success of our entertainment businesses. In addition, our motion pictures compete for audience acceptance and exhibition outlets with motion pictures produced and distributed by other companies. Likewise, our television product faces significant competition from independent distributors as well as major studios. As a result, the success of 16 Table of Contents any of our motion pictures and television product is dependent not only on the quality and acceptance of a particular film or program, but also on the quality and acceptance of other competing motion pictures or television programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time. TV Guide Network. TV Guide Network’s viewership comes primarily from analog cable homes, where scroll data is still utilized for guidance. In satellite and digital cable households, which have many more channels and generally use an interactive program guide for listings information, viewership has historically been small. TV Guide Network continues to invest in original programming, including programming revolving around various entertainment awards shows. TV Guide Network believes that, by focusing on programming that celebrates television, it can draw an audience beyond those who currently tune in solely for television program listings. This means that it will compete with general entertainment channels for television viewership and marketers’ advertising spend. TV Guide Network also competes with other networks for limited analog cable television system channel slots. The competition for channel space has increased, and TV Guide Network believes it will continue to increase as programming distributors increase deployment of advanced digital services such as high definition television, voice over internet protocol and video-on-demand. As a source of listing information, TV Guide Network has the following primary sources of competition: television listings included in local and national newspapers, as well as free supplements in Sunday newspapers; niche cable-guide publications; and electronic, interactive and online programming guides, including our own interactive and internet program listings guide services. TV Guide Network also faces competition from MSOs who may wish to launch their own programming guide channels. TV Guide Online. TV Guide Online competes with general entertainment websites for visitors. TV Guide Online also competes with general entertainment websites and other forms of media for marketers’ advertising spend. Certain initiatives, including its television focused search engine, compete with established online search providers who may have an inherent advantage in terms of their online brand recognition and current traffic. As a source of listing information, TV Guide Online has the following primary sources of competition: other programming listing services available on the internet; electronic, interactive and online programming guides, including our own interactive program guide; television listings included in local and national newspapers, as well as free supplements in Sunday newspapers; and niche cable-guide publications. TV Guide Network On Demand and TV Guide Broadband. TV Guide Network On Demand and TV Guide Broadband are advertiser supported, video-on-demand services featuring short-form, originally-produced entertainment programs that guide consumers to the most compelling fare on television each week. TV Guide Broadband is available on www.tvguide.com and is also distributed on major video portals such as Hulu, Veoh, BrightCove and Youtube. TV Guide Network On Demand is currently available to over 35 million subscribers. Legislative and Regulatory Actions The satellite transmission, cable and telecommunications industries are subject to pervasive federal regulation, including Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) licensing and other requirements. The industries are also often subject to extensive regulation by local and state authorities. Although most cable and telecommunication industry regulations do not apply directly to TV Guide Network, they affect programming distributors, a primary customer for its products and services. TV Guide Network monitors pending legislation and administrative proceedings to ascertain their relevance, analyze their impact and develop strategic direction relating to regulatory trends and developments within the industry. Employees As of May 22, 2009 we had 802 full-time employees in our worldwide operations, which includes 293 full-time employees at TV Guide Network and TV Guide Online. We also utilize many consultants in the ordinary course of our business and hire additional employees on a project-by-project basis in connection with the production of our motion pictures and television programming. We believe that our employee and labor relations are good. None of our full-time employees are members of unions. 17 Table of Contents Corporate History We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, resulting from the merger of Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. and Beringer Gold Corp. on November 13, 1997. Beringer Gold Corp. was incorporated under the Business Corporation Act (British Columbia) on May 26, 1986 as IMI Computer Corp. Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. was incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act using the name 3369382 Canada Limited on April 28, 1997, amended its articles on July 3, 1997 to change its name to Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., and on September 24, 1997, continued under the Business Corporation Act (British Columbia). Financial Information About Segments and Foreign and Domestic Operations Financial and other information by reporting segment and geographic area as of March 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the three years ended March 31, 2009 is set forth in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our website at www.lionsgate.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company’s Disclosure Policy, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Standards for Director Independence, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Policy on Shareholder Communications, Charter of the Audit Committee, Charter of the Compensation Committee and Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and any amendments thereto are also available on the Company’s website, as well as in print to any stockholder who requests them. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are filing as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K certifications required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) the annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer for fiscal 2009, confirming that we were in compliance with NYSE corporate governance listing standards. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to our common shares. The following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. We have had losses, and we cannot assure future profitability. We have reported operating income for fiscal years 2005 through 2007, and operating losses for fiscal years 2004, 2008 and 2009. We have reported net income for fiscal years 2005 through 2007, and net losses for the fiscal years 2004, 2008 and 2009. Our accumulated deficit was $386.6 million at March 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will operate profitably and, if we do not, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements, working capital requirements, capital expenditure plans, anticipated production slate, acquisition and releasing plans or other cash needs. Our inability to meet those needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial capital requirements and financial risks. Our business requires a substantial investment of capital. The production, acquisition and distribution of motion pictures and television programs require a significant amount of capital. A significant amount of time may elapse between our expenditure of funds and the receipt of commercial revenues from or government contributions to our motion pictures or television programs. This time lapse requires us to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements from our revolving credit facility and from other financing sources. Although we intend to continue to reduce the risks of our production exposure through financial contributions from broadcasters and distributors, tax shelters, government and industry programs, other studios and other sources, we cannot assure you that we will continue to implement successfully these arrangements or that we will not be subject to substantial financial risks relating to the production, acquisition, completion and release of future motion pictures and television programs. If we increase (through 18 Table of Contents internal growth or acquisition) our production slate or our production budgets, we may be required to increase overhead and/or make larger up-front payments to talent and, consequently, bear greater financial risks. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have steadily increased and may further increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit or compete against other films. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for our films to generate a profit or compete against other films. Historically, production costs and marketing costs have risen at a higher rate than increases in either the number of domestic admissions to movie theaters or admission ticket prices. A continuation of this trend would leave us more dependent on other media, such as home video, television, international markets and new media for revenue, and the revenues from such sources may not be sufficient to offset an increase in the cost of motion picture production. If we cannot successfully exploit these other media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Budget overruns may adversely affect our business. Our business model requires that we be efficient in the production of our motion pictures and television programs. Actual motion picture and television production costs often exceed their budgets, sometimes significantly. The production, completion and distribution of motion pictures and television productions are subject to a number of uncertainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative differences among key cast members and other key creative personnel or other disruptions or events beyond our control. Risks such as death or disability of star performers, technical complications with special effects or other aspects of production, shortages of necessary equipment, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or frustrate completion of a production. If a motion picture or television production incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production. We cannot make assurances regarding the availability of such financing on terms acceptable to us, and the lack of such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if a motion picture or television production incurs substantial budget overruns, we cannot assure you that we will recoup these costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs incurred with respect to a particular film may result in any such film not being ready for release at the intended time and the postponement to a potentially less favorable time, all of which could cause a decline in box office performance, and, thus, the overall financial success of such film. Budget overruns could also prevent a picture from being completed or released. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our credit facility contains certain covenants and financial tests that limit the way we conduct business. Our $340 million credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A contains various covenants limiting our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other distributions, pre-pay any subordinated indebtedness, make investments and other restricted payments, make capital expenditures, make acquisitions and sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Under our credit facility, we are also required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests and may be subject to an event of default upon a “change in control” (as defined in the credit facility) which, among other things, includes a person or group acquiring ownership or control in excess of 20% of our common stock. If we cannot comply with these covenants or meet these ratios and other tests, it could result in a default under our credit facility, and unless we are able to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, depending upon our outstanding balance at the time. In addition, if our credit facility is accelerated pursuant to an event of default, holders of our notes may have the right to accelerate the debts thereunder. Borrowings under our credit facility also are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. If we are in default under our credit facility, the lenders could foreclose upon all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow to repay our indebtedness, and we further cannot assure you that, if the need arises, we will be able to obtain additional financing or to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition. Historically, we have been highly leveraged and may be highly leveraged in the future. We have access to capital through our $340 million credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and a balance under letters of credit for $46.7 million. In addition, we have $316 million convertible senior subordinated notes outstanding, with $150 million maturing October 15, 2024 and $166 million maturing March 15, 2025. At March 31, 2009, we had approximately $138.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. We have currently drawn down on $255 million of our credit facility, and could borrow some or all of the permitted amount in the future. The amount we have available to borrow under this facility depends upon our borrowing base, which in turn depends on the value of our existing library of films and television programs, as well as accounts receivable and cash held in collateral accounts. If several of our larger motion picture releases are commercial failures or our library 19 Table of Contents declines in value, our borrowing base could decrease. Such a decrease could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the repayment of our indebtedness, reducing the amount of cash flow available to fund motion picture and television production, distribution and other operating expenses; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for operating expenses, or limit our ability to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us; and • limit our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions and other business opportunities that may be in our best interests. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. At March 31, 2009, we had $316 million convertible senior subordinated notes outstanding, with $150 million maturing October 15, 2024 and $166 million maturing March 15, 2025. Additionally, at certain times, the holders of such notes may require that we repurchase the notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Accordingly, our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and depend on a variety of factors. Our revenues and results of operations depend significantly upon the commercial success of the motion pictures and television programming that we distribute, which cannot be predicted with certainty. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results for any future periods. Furthermore, largely as a result of these predictive difficulties, we may not be able to achieve our projected earnings. We have, in the past, revised our projected earnings downward. Future revisions to projected earnings could cause investors to lose confidence in us, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, our revenues and results of operations may be impacted by the success of critically acclaimed and award winning films, including Academy Award winners and nominees. We cannot assure you that we will manage the production, acquisition and distribution of future motion pictures (including any films in the Saw or Tyler Perry franchises) as successfully as we have done with these recent critically acclaimed, award winning and/or commercially popular films or that we will produce or acquire motion pictures that will receive similar critical acclaim or perform as well commercially. Any inability to achieve such commercial success could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have few output agreements with cable and broadcast channels. In January 2009, we acquired certain assets related to the business of TV Guide. We also had an agreement with one cable broadcast channel to exhibit our films, but that agreement does not cover films released theatrically after 2008. While similar broadcasters exhibit our films, they license such rights on a film-by-film, rather than an output basis. In April 2008, we announced a joint venture with Viacom, Paramount Pictures and MGM to create a premium television channel and video-on-demand service named EPIX. The joint venture will provide for certain output agreements with each partner, including us. We cannot assure you, however, that the joint venture will be successful. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure other output agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. Without multiple output agreements that typically contain guaranteed minimum payments, our revenues may be subject to greater volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a few major retailers and distributors for a material portion of our business and the loss of any of those retailers or distributors could reduce our revenues and operating results. Wal-Mart represented approximately 17% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. In addition, a small number of other retailers and distributors account for a significant percentage of our revenues. We do not have long-term agreements with retailers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with our retailers and distributors or that they will not be adversely affected by economic conditions. If any of these retailers or distributors 20 Table of Contents reduces or cancels a significant order, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and results of operations are vulnerable to currency fluctuations. We report our revenues and results of operations in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our revenues is earned outside of the U.S. Our principal currency exposure is between Canadian, Great Britain pounds and U.S. dollars. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and operating margins, and fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may experience currency exposure on distribution and production revenues and expenses from foreign countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accounting practices used in our industry may accentuate fluctuations in operating results. In addition to the cyclical nature of the entertainment industry, our accounting practices (which are standard for the industry) may accentuate fluctuations in our operating results. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and industry practice, we amortize film and television programming costs using the “individual-film-forecast” method. Under this accounting method, we amortize film and television programming costs for each film or television program based on the following ratio: Revenue earned by title in the current period Estimated total future revenues by title as of the beginning of the year We regularly review, and revise when necessary, our total revenue estimates on a title-by-title basis. This review may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the film or television asset to its estimated fair value. Results of operations in future years depend upon our amortization of our film and television costs. Periodic adjustments in amortization rates may significantly affect these results. In addition, we are required to expense film advertising costs as incurred, but are also required to recognize the revenue from any motion picture or television program over the entire revenue stream expected to be generated by the individual picture or television program. Failure to manage future growth may adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures. From time to time, we engage in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business. For instance, in February 2009, we acquired TV Guide Network and related assets, including TV Guide On Demand and TV Guide Online. Additionally, in April 2008, we announced a joint venture with Viacom, Paramount Pictures and MGM to create a premium television channel and video-on-demand service named EPIX. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Regardless of whether we consummate any such transaction, the negotiation of a potential transaction (including associated litigation and proxy contests), as well as the integration of the acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Any such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to integrate any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined. Integrating any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined is distracting to our management and disruptive to our business and may result in significant costs to us. We could face challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, information technology and accounting systems, personnel and operations in a timely and efficient manner. If any such integration is unsuccessful, or if the integration takes longer than anticipated, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty managing the combined entity in the short term if we experience a significant loss of management personnel during the transition period after the significant acquisition. Claims against us relating to any acquisition or business combination may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the seller’s indemnification obligations. There may be liabilities assumed in any acquisition or business combination that we did not discover or that we underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence investigation. Although a seller generally will have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition or merger agreement, these obligations usually will be subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and maximum recovery amounts, as well as time limitations. We cannot assure you that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any undiscovered or underestimated liabilities that we may incur. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain additional funding to meet our requirements. Our ability to grow through acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures, to maintain and expand our development, production and distribution of motion pictures and television programs and to fund our operating expenses depends upon our ability to obtain funds through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in certain projects or other assets. If we do not have access to such financing arrangements, and if other funding does not become available on terms acceptable to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our filmed and television content library revenues comes from a small number of titles. We depend on a limited number of titles for the majority of the revenues generated by our filmed and television content library. In addition, many of the titles in our library are not presently distributed and generate substantially no revenue. If we cannot acquire new product and the rights to popular titles through production, distribution agreements, acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are limited in our ability to exploit a portion of our filmed and television content library. Our rights to the titles in our filmed and television content library vary; in some cases we have only the right to distribute titles in certain media and territories for a limited term. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew expiring rights on acceptable terms and that any failure to renew titles generating a significant portion of our revenue would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends on external factors in the motion picture and television industry. Our success depends on the commercial success of motion pictures and television programs, which is unpredictable. Operating in the motion picture and television industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each motion picture and television program is an individual artistic work, and inherently unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our motion pictures or programs depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the format of their initial release, for example, theatrical or direct-to-video, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of our motion pictures or television programs also depends upon the quality and acceptance of motion pictures or programs that our competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because a motion picture’s or television program’s performance in ancillary markets, such as home video and pay and free television, is often directly related to its box office performance or television ratings, poor box office results or poor television ratings may negatively affect future revenue streams. Our success will depend on the experience and judgment of our management to select and develop new investment and production opportunities. We cannot make assurances that our motion pictures and television programs will obtain favorable reviews or ratings, that our motion pictures will perform well at the box office or in ancillary markets or that broadcasters will license the rights to broadcast any of our television programs in development or renew licenses to broadcast programs in our library. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes and the effects of the continued global economic crisis or regional economic conditions in the U.S. could adversely affect the profitability of our business. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government and other foreign governments, decreased consumer confidence, overall slower economic activity and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, a decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our films, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. A decline in economic conditions could reduce performance of our theatrical, television and home entertainment releases. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. Moreover, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock we may make in the future). We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other downturn in the economy and we are not immune to the effects of general worldwide economic conditions. 22 Table of Contents Licensed distributors’ failure to promote our programs may adversely affect our business. Licensed distributors’ decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our motion pictures, television programs and related products are important in determining the success of these pictures, programs and products. We do not control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our motion pictures or television programs. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote one of our motion pictures, television programs or related products or to promote our competitors’ motion pictures, television programs or related products to a greater extent than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. We are directly or indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of motion pictures and television programs. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of motion pictures or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. The entertainment businesses’ collective bargaining agreement with the Screen Actors Guild (“SAG”) covering performers expired on June 30, 2008. The SAG National Board of Directors voted on April 19, 2009 to approve and recommend ratification by its members of a new collective bargaining agreement. The results of the ratification vote are expected to be announced by June 2009. If an agreement is not reached by the parties, strikes or work stoppages could occur. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new motion pictures and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial competition in all aspects of our business. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors. As an independent distributor and producer, we constantly compete with major U.S. and international studios. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both the means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their motion picture and television operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. Additionally, the TV Guide Network competes with general entertainment channels for television viewership and carriage on cable and satellite systems. TV Guide Online competes for visitors with general entertainment websites and online search providers, including sites that provide television listings, television-specific information and/or that enable users to locate and view video on the internet. Moreover, each of TV Guide Network and TV Guide Online competes for marketers’ advertising spend with other media outlets. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The motion picture industry is highly competitive and at times may create an oversupply of motion pictures in the market. The number of motion pictures released by our competitors, particularly the major studios, may create an oversupply of product in the market, reduce our share of box office receipts and make it more difficult for our films to succeed commercially. Oversupply may become most pronounced during peak release times, such as school holidays and national holidays, when theater attendance is expected to be highest. For this reason, and because of our more limited production and advertising budgets, we typically do not release our films during peak release times, which may also reduce our potential revenues for a particular release. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that we can release all of our films when they are otherwise scheduled. In addition to production or other delays that might cause us to alter our release schedule, a change in the schedule of a major studio may force us to alter the release date of a film because we cannot always compete with a major studio’s larger promotion campaign. Any such change could adversely impact a film’s financial performance. In addition, if we cannot change our schedule after such a change by a major studio because we are too close to the release date, the major studio’s release and its typically larger promotion budget may adversely impact the financial performance of our film. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The limited supply of motion picture screens compounds this product oversupply problem. Currently, a substantial majority of the motion picture screens in the U.S. typically are committed at any one time to only 10 to 15 films distributed nationally by major studio distributors. In addition, as a result of changes in the theatrical exhibition industry, including reorganizations and consolidations and the fact that major studio releases occupy more screens, the number of screens available to us when we want to release a picture may decrease. If the number of motion picture screens decreases, box office receipts, and the correlating future revenue streams, such as from home video and pay and free television, of our motion pictures may also decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We must successfully respond to rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive. The entertainment industry in general and the motion picture and television industries in particular continue to undergo significant technological developments. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats, including release of titles in high-definition Blu-Ray format, and downloading and streaming from the internet. An increase in video-on-demand could decrease home video rentals. In addition, technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements, such as digital video recorders, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our products to advertisers, and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. Similarly, further increases in the use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements could adversely affect our revenues. Other larger entertainment distribution companies will have larger budgets to exploit these growing trends. We cannot predict how we will financially participate in the exploitation of our motion pictures and television programs through these emerging technologies or whether we have the right to do so for certain of our library titles. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to increase our advertising revenue for our TV Guide Network business, we may be unable to achieve improved results. Revenues at TV Guide Network consist of affiliate fees and advertising revenues; however, since the majority of its affiliates are contracted under long-term agreements with only cost-of-living increases available under certain contracts, we do not expect significant growth in affiliate revenues in the future. Accordingly, the results at TV Guide Network are highly dependent upon advertising revenue. Advertising revenue at the TV Guide Network primarily comes from commercials sold during programming hours (11:00 AM to 2:00 AM) and infomercials broadcast between 2:00 AM and 11:00 AM. Advertising sales are primarily dependent on the extent of distribution of the network; viewership ratings, such as those published by Nielsen Media Research; and the strength of the market for advertising. While TV Guide Network has benefited, to a certain degree, from the expanded distribution, a significant portion of the expanded distribution has been to satellite subscribers, who did not previously have TV Guide Network as a programming choice. Digital cable and satellite homes also have many more channels and generally use an interactive program guide rather than TV Guide Network, for listing information. As such, the viewership of TV Guide Network in digital cable and satellite homes has been minimal to date. Also, certain of the long-term agreements with multiple MSOs for the TV Guide Network allow for migration to exclusively digital carriage. If the MSOs elect to migrate TV Guide Network to digital carriage, TV Guide Network will generally experience a corresponding reduction in subscribers, resulting in reduced affiliate fee revenue and potentially reducing advertising revenue, due both to the smaller pool of potential viewers and the fact that TV Guide Network’s viewers come primarily from analog cable homes, where scroll data is still utilized for guidance. TV Guide Network has been investing in new programming and marketing initiatives with an expectation that the additional investments that it is making in programming and marketing will, in the future, result in increased viewership in both cable and satellite homes. If viewership ratings do not improve sufficiently or it is unable to maintain broad distribution, TV Guide Network’s increased programming and marketing costs could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. While TV Guide Network has undertaken significant programming and marketing initiatives designed in part to position itself as an entertainment destination independent of listings data, there can be no assurance that such initiatives will ultimately result in increased viewership ratings and advertising revenues, or that any initial increase in viewership ratings will be sustainable over time. The loss of our affiliation agreements, or renewals with less advantageous terms, could cause our revenue to decline. Because TV Guide Network is licensed on a wholesale basis to distributors such as cable and satellite operators which in turn distribute it to consumers, it is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with these operators. These affiliation agreements generally provide for the level of carriage TV Guide Networks will receive, such as channel placement and programming package inclusion (widely distributed, broader programming packages compared to lesser distributed, specialized programming packages), and for payment of a license fee to TV Guide Network based on the numbers of subscribers that receive the network. TV Guide Network’s affiliation agreements generally have a limited term which varies from market to market and from distributor to distributor, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on terms that are as favorable as those in effect today. A reduction in the license fees that TV Guide Networks receives per subscriber or in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as a result of a loss or reduction in carriage for the network, could adversely affect its distribution revenue. Such a loss or reduction in carriage could also decrease the potential audience for its programs thereby adversely affecting its advertising revenue. 24 Table of Contents If third-party suppliers of TV Guide Network fail to provide it with network infrastructure services on a timely basis, its costs could increase and its growth could be hindered. TV Guide Network currently relies on third parties to supply key network infrastructure services including uplink, playback, transmission and satellite services, which are available only from limited sources. TV Guide Network has occasionally experienced delays and other problems in receiving communications equipment, services and facilities and may, in the future, be unable to obtain such services, equipment or facilities on the scale and within the time frames required by it on acceptable terms, or at all. If it is unable to obtain, or if it experiences a delay in the delivery of, such services, it may be forced to incur significant unanticipated expenses to secure alternative third party suppliers or adjust its operations, which could hinder its growth and reduce its revenue. Digital recapture may adversely affect the TV Guide Network business and operating results. Cable television is transmitted on a limited frequency spectrum that must be allocated between multiple analog and digital channels. As digital penetration increases, MSOs are reclaiming analog bandwidth to launch more high-definition channels and other services, and are likely to continue this recapture until they rebuild their plants to increase bandwidth or there is stability in the mix of analog and digital carriage. Digital recapture will result in a significant decline in the distribution of the analog TV Guide Network, which could negatively impact its operating results. Some terms of TV Guide Network’s agreements with licensees could be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect licensing revenue payable to it under those agreements. Some of TV Guide Network’s license agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if TV Guide Network enters into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, it must offer some of those terms to the existing licensees. TV Guide Network has entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. While we believe that TV Guide Network has appropriately complied with the most favored nation terms included in its license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on TV Guide Network’s financial condition or results of operations. Government regulations may adversely affect the TV Guide Network business. Programming services like that of TV Guide Networks, and the distributors of its services, including cable operators, satellite operators and internet companies (such as TV Guide Online), are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress, the FCC and the courts currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect operations of our properties or modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate. For example, any changes to the laws and regulations that govern the services or signals that are carried by cable television operators or our other distributors may result in less capacity for other programming services, such as our network, which could adversely affect its revenue. Interruption or failure of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms could impair TV Guide Network’s ability to effectively provide its services, which could affect its revenues. The provision of certain of TV Guide Network’s services depends on the continuing operation of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms, including satellite, cable, wire, over the air broadcast communications and transmission systems and mechanisms. These communication and transmission systems and mechanisms are subject to significant risks and any damage to or failure of these systems and mechanisms could result in an interruption of the provision of its services. Interruptions in the provision of its services could adversely affect its revenues, and its brand could be damaged if people believe the services are unreliable. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that it depends on is vulnerable to damage or interruption from telecommunications and satellite failures, natural disasters, terrorists attacks, power loss, computer viruses and similar events. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that it depends on are not fully redundant, and its disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Continued consolidation of the cable and satellite broadcasting industry could adversely affect existing agreements; the impact of these changes is not clear. TV Guide Network has entered into agreements with a large number of cable MSOs and satellite providers for the licensing or distribution of its services. If consolidation of the cable and satellite broadcasting industry continues, some of these agreements may be affected by mergers, acquisitions or system swaps. We cannot assure you that any measures that we have taken to protect TV Guide Network against any negative consequences resulting from those transactions will be effective. Also, a service provider that files a bankruptcy petition or otherwise restructures or liquidates could avoid its future obligations and discharge its past payment obligations 25 Table of Contents under the agreement in some circumstances. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenue TV Guide Network receives under these agreements. Limitations on control of joint ventures may adversely impact our operations. We hold our interests in certain businesses as a joint venture or in partnership with non-affiliated third parties. As a result of such arrangements, we may be unable to control the operations, strategies and financial decisions of such joint venture or partnership entities which could in turn result in limitations on our ability to implement strategies that we may favor. In addition, our ability to transfer our interests in businesses owned with third parties is limited under certain joint venture, partnership or similar agreements. We face risks from doing business internationally. We distribute motion picture and television productions outside the U.S. in the UK and Ireland through Lionsgate UK, in Australia and New Zealand through Lionsgate Australia, and through third party licensees elsewhere, and derive revenues from these sources. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws; • changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; • differing cultural tastes and attitudes; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; • financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets, including in European pay television markets; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; • fluctuating foreign exchange rates; • the spread of communicable diseases in such jurisdictions, which may impact business in such jurisdictions; and • war and acts of terrorism. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We do not have the financial resources to protect our rights to the same extent as major studios. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright or trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation may also be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. One of the risks of the film production business is the possibility that others may claim that our productions and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their previously developed films, stories, characters, other entertainment or intellectual property. We are likely to receive in the future claims of infringement or misappropriation of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such assertions or claims may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to settle such claim by obtaining a license from the plaintiff covering the disputed intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license, or any other form of settlement, would be available on reasonable terms or at all. Our business involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: • defamation; • invasion of privacy; • negligence; • copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed above); and • other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and distributors of media content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy, may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia, and former Eastern bloc countries, and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release on DVDs, Blu-ray discs, from pay-per-view through set top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our business, because these products reduce the revenue we received from our products. Additionally, in order to contain this problem, we may have to implement elaborate and costly security and anti-piracy measures, which could result in significant expenses and losses of revenue. We cannot assure you that even the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures will prevent piracy. In particular, unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in countries outside of the U.S., Canada and Western Europe, whose legal systems may make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights. While the U.S. government has publicly considered implementing trade sanctions against specific countries that, in its opinion, do not make appropriate efforts to prevent copyright infringements of U.S. produced motion pictures, there can be no assurance that any such sanctions will be enacted or, if enacted, will be effective. In addition, if enacted, such sanctions could impact the amount of revenue that we realize from the international exploitation of motion pictures. If no embargoes or sanctions are enacted, or if other measures are not taken, we may lose revenue as a result of motion picture piracy. An investment by non-Canadians in our business is potentially reviewable under the ICA, which could adversely affect our results. The Investment Canada Act (Canada) or ICA is administered by the Minister of Industry of Canada and, in the case of investments in a Canadian cultural business, by the Minister of Canadian Heritage (both referred to herein as the “Minister”). A “Canadian cultural business” is defined in the ICA as a business activity relating to Canada’s cultural heritage or national identity, and includes a business engaged in the production, distribution, sale or exhibition of film or video products. 27 Table of Contents The ICA contains rules, the application of which determines whether an entity (as the term is defined in the ICA) is Canadian-controlled and whether it carries on a Canadian cultural business. We may or may not be operating a Canadian cultural business for the purposes of the ICA. Under the ICA, the Minister has discretion to determine, after considering any information or evidence submitted by the entity or otherwise made available to the Minister or the Director of Investments, that an investment by a non-Canadian in a Canadian cultural business may constitute an acquisition of control by that non-Canadian, notwithstanding the provisions in the ICA that state that certain investments do not or may not constitute an acquisition of control that would require notification or review under the ICA. If the Minister exercises such discretion and deems an investment by a non-Canadian in a cultural business to be an acquisition of control, the investment is potentially subject to notification and/or review. If the investment is subject to review, the Minister must be satisfied that the investment is likely to be of net benefit to Canada. Such a determination is often accompanied by requests that the non-Canadian provide undertakings supportive of Canadian cultural policy. These undertakings may, in some circumstances, include a request for financial support of certain initiatives. The determination by the Minister of whether a proposed investment is of net benefit to Canada also includes consideration of sector specific policies of the Canadian federal government, some of which restrict or prohibit investments by non-Canadians in certain types of Canadian cultural businesses. Although we believe we are currently a Canadian-controlled entity under the ICA, there can be no assurance that the Minister will not determine that we are out of compliance with the ICA, or that events beyond our control will not result in our ceasing to be Canadian-controlled pursuant to the ICA. There are currently no transfer restrictions on our common shares as a class, and we accordingly may not be able to prevent an acquisition of control by non-Canadians. In addition, the ICA provides the Minister with discretion to make a determination that an entity engaged in a cultural business is not a Canadian-controlled entity, if the Minister is satisfied, after considering any information or evidence submitted by the entity or otherwise made available to the Minister or the Director of Investments, that the entity is controlled in fact by one or more non-Canadians. If we cease to be Canadian-controlled under the ICA, we and the entities that we consolidate, may no longer qualify for or be entitled to access refundable tax credits and other Canadian government and private motion picture industry incentives that are restricted to Canadian-controlled corporations. Such a change in status could also cause us to be required to repay certain tax credits and other government incentives previously received and default on certain distribution obligations, thereby affecting our financial results since we are required to consolidate the results of operations in our financial statements. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees, including production and creative personnel. We do not currently have significant “key person” life insurance policies for any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with our top executive officers and production executives. However, although it is standard in the motion picture industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, these agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. In addition, competition for the limited number of business, production and creative personnel necessary to create and distribute our entertainment content is intense and may grow in the future. Our inability to retain or successfully replace where necessary members of our senior management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to produce our motion pictures and television programs continues to increase. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such personnel in the future. If we were unable to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including changes in financial estimates by analysts, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, productions, acquisitions or capital commitments, variations in quarterly operating results, general economic conditions, terrorist acts, future sales of our common shares and investor perception of us and the filmmaking industry. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 28 Table of Contents While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, and changes in geographic operating results, may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by changes in the amount of revenue or earnings that we derive from international sources in countries with high or low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by federal, state, and foreign tax jurisdictions. At the present time, we are not subject to any examinations. However, we regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from possible examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. In making such assessments, we exercise judgment in estimating our provision for income taxes. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that final determinations from any examinations will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome from any examinations may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NYSE. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance for public companies of our size, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 