Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above and the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors affecting the trucking industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the most significant of these factors are recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers' inventory levels, excess tractor or trailer capacity compared to shipping volumes, and downturns in customers' business cycles. Economic conditions, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers and in regions of the country where we have a significant amount of business, that decrease freight demand or increase the supply of tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates or equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. Adverse economic conditions also may harm our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. We also are subject to increases in costs and other events that are outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, fuel and energy prices, taxes and interest rates, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance, revenue equipment and related maintenance costs, and healthcare and other benefits for our employees. We could be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at our service centers or at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations. Changing impacts of regulatory measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity, decrease our revenues and profitability, and result in higher operating costs. In addition, declines in the resale value of revenue equipment can also affect our profitability and cash flows. From time-to-time, various federal, state, or local taxes are also increased, including taxes on fuels. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such increase applicable to us will be enacted, but such an increase could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we cannot predict future economic conditions, fuel price fluctuations, or how consumer confidence could be affected by actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, government efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. 9 Table of Contents Our growth may not continue at historical rates. Although we experienced significant and rapid growth in revenue and profits since the inception of our business in 1990, our growth slowed in recent years. There can be no assurance that our business will grow substantially or without volatility. Moreover, we may not be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. In addition to our service centers in Phoenix, Arizona, we have established service centers throughout the United States in order to serve markets in various regions. These regional operations require the commitment of additional personnel and/or revenue equipment, as well as management resources, for future development. Should the growth in our regional operations slow or stagnate, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. As we continue to expand, it may become more difficult to identify large cities that can support a service center, and we may expand into smaller cities where there is less economic activity and opportunities for growth and fewer driver and non-driver personnel to support the service center. We may encounter operating conditions in these new markets, as well as our current markets, that differ substantially from those previously experienced. We may not be able to duplicate our regional operating strategy successfully throughout the United States, or perhaps outside the United States, and establishing service centers and operations in new markets could require more time and resources than expected or require a more substantial financial commitment than anticipated. In addition, the commencement of operations outside our existing lines of business is subject to the risks inherent in entering new lines of business, including, but not limited to, unfamiliarity with pricing, service, operational, and liability issues; the risk that customer relationships may be difficult to obtain or that we may have to reduce rates to gain and develop customer relationships; the risk that the specialized equipment may not be adequately utilized; and the risk that insurance and claims may exceed our past experience. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers' compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees' health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed or replaced. If cost per claim, premiums, or the number of claims significantly exceeds our coverage limits or retention amounts, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, if our insurance carriers fail to pay on our insurance claims, or if we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Healthcare legislation and inflationary cost increases could also negatively affect our financial results. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we would need to seek alternative sources of capital, including financing, to meet our capital requirements. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Increased prices and reduced efficiency relating to new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to higher prices for new tractors. Prices may increase due to, among other reasons, increases in commodity prices and government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors, trailers and diesel engines and due to the pricing discretion of equipment manufacturers. In addition, the engines installed in our newer tractors are subject to emissions control regulations issued by the EPA. The regulations require reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines manufactured beginning in 2010. Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and could impair equipment productivity and increase our operating expenses. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values realized from the disposition of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations as the regulations become effective. Over the past several years, some manufacturers have significantly increased new equipment prices, in part to meet new engine design and operation requirements. We have trade-in and/or repurchase commitments that specify, among other things, what our primary equipment vendors will pay us for disposal of a substantial portion of our revenue equipment. The prices we expect to receive under these arrangements may be higher than the prices we would receive in the open market. We may suffer a financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if these vendors refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements, if we do not enter into definitive agreements that reflect favorable terms, if we fail to or are unable to enter into similar arrangements in the future, or if we do not purchase the number of replacement units from the vendors required for such trade-ins. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather related, and market factors that are generally outside our control and each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Fuel also is subject to regional pricing differences and often costs more on the West Coast, where we have significant operations. We use a fuel surcharge program to recapture a portion of the increases in fuel prices over a base rate negotiated with our customers. Our fuel surcharge program does not protect us against the full effect of increases in fuel prices. The terms of each customer's fuel surcharge program vary and customers may seek to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge programs to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. A failure to improve our fuel price protection through these measures, increases in fuel prices, or a shortage or rationing of diesel fuel, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Difficulty in driver and independent contractor recruitment and retention may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, could have a materially adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our industry periodically experiences a shortage of qualified drivers, particularly during periods of economic expansion, in which alternative employment opportunities are more plentiful and freight demand increases, or during periods of economic downturns, in which unemployment benefits might be extended and financing is limited for independent contractors who seek to purchase equipment or for students who seek financial aid for driving school. In addition, CSA and stricter hours-of-service limitations in the future may reduce effective driving capacity in our industry. Our independent contractors are responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs, and significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek higher compensation from us or seek other opportunities within or outside the trucking industry. If a shortage of drivers were to occur, or if we were unable to continue to attract and contract with independent contractors, we could be forced to, among other things, limit our growth, decrease the number of our tractors in service (which would lower our profitability), or further adjust our driver compensation package, which could adversely affect our profitability if not offset by a corresponding increase in rates. 11 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in existing regulations or violations of existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the DOT. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to exhaust emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, on-board reporting of operations, collective bargaining, security at ports, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent, require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. The Regulation section in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report discusses in detail several proposed, pending and final regulations that could significantly affect our business and operations. CSA could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships. Under CSA, drivers and fleets are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating has been expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier's drivers. As a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peers, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. The occurrence of future deficiencies could affect driver recruitment and retention by causing high-quality drivers to seek employment with other carriers or by causing our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet safety ratings, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations and productivity. Additionally, competition for drivers with favorable safety ratings may increase and thus could necessitate increases in driver-related compensation costs. Additionally, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve our scores or as a result of those scores. If our independent contractor drivers are deemed by regulators or judicial process to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractor drivers in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Federal legislators have introduced legislation in the past to make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees, including legislation to increase the recordkeeping requirements for employers of independent contractor drivers and to heighten the penalties of employers who misclassify their employees and are found to have violated employees' overtime and/or wage requirements. Additionally, federal legislators have sought to abolish the current safe harbor allowing taxpayers meeting certain criteria to treat individuals as independent contractors if they are following a long-standing, recognized practice, extend the Fair Labor Standards Act to independent contractors, and impose notice requirements based upon employment or independent contractor status and fines for failure to comply. Some states have put initiatives in place to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers' compensation, and income taxes, and a reclassification of independent contractor drivers as employees would help states with this initiative. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. If our independent contractor drivers are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the transportation, storage, presence, use, disposal and handling of hazardous materials, discharge of wastewater and storm water, and with waste oil and fuel storage tanks. Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Certain of our facilities have waste oil or fuel storage tanks and fueling islands. A small percentage of our freight consists of low-grade hazardous substances, which subjects us to a wide array of regulations. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, if we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to cleanup costs and liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. 12 Table of Contents Two of our service centers are located adjacent to environmental "superfund" sites. Although we have not been named as a potentially responsible party in either case, we are potentially exposed to claims that we may have contributed to environmental contamination in the areas in which we operate. Our Phoenix service center is located on land identified as potentially having groundwater contamination resulting from the release of hazardous substances by persons who have operated in the general vicinity. The area has been classified as a state superfund site. We have been located at our Phoenix facility since 1990 and, during such time, have not been identified as a potentially responsible party with regard to the groundwater contamination, and we do not believe that our operations have been a source of groundwater contamination. Our Indianapolis service center is located approximately one-tenth of a mile east of Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation, a federal superfund site listed on the National Priorities List for cleanup. The Reilly site has known soil and groundwater contamination. There also are other sites in the general vicinity of our Indianapolis property that have known contamination. Environmental reports obtained by us have disclosed no evidence that activities on our Indianapolis property have caused or contributed to the area's contamination, but it is possible that we could be responsible for cleanup costs regardless. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In order to reduce exhaust emissions and traffic congestion, some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle and/or travel. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers' behavior and routes, purchase on-board power units that replaces the engine power and eliminates idling, or face a decrease in productivity. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Historically, acquisitions have been a part of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we are unable to retain our key employees or find, develop, and retain service center managers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the services of certain key employees, including, but not limited to: Kevin P. Knight, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Gary J. Knight, our Vice Chairman of the Board; Keith T. Knight, our Chief Operating Officer; David A. Jackson, our President; Adam W. Miller, our Chief Financial Officer; Kevin Quast, our Chief Operations Officer, and James Updike, our Executive Vice President of Sales & Marketing. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of these key employees, and the loss of any of their services could negatively impact our operations and future profitability. Additionally, we must, because of our regional operating strategy, continue to find, develop, and retain service center managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. Failing to find, develop, and retain a core group of service center managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents We have several major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a number of major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our top 25 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 38% of our revenue; our top 10 customers, approximately 23% of our revenue; and our top 5 customers, approximately 15% of our revenue. We operate in a highly competitive industry and generally do not have long-term contractual relationships with our customers. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on third parties, particularly in our rail intermodal and brokerage businesses, and service instability from these providers could increase our operating costs and reduce our ability to offer rail intermodal and brokerage services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and customer relationships. Our intermodal business utilizes railroads and some third-party drayage carriers to transport freight for our customers. In most markets, rail service is limited to a few railroads or even a single railroad. Any future reduction in service by the railroads with which we have, or in the future may have, relationships that could increase the cost of the rail-based services we provide and could reduce the reliability, timeliness, efficiency, and overall attractiveness of our rail-based intermodal services. Furthermore, railroads increase shipping rates as market conditions permit. Price increases could result in higher costs to our customers and reduce or eliminate our ability to offer intermodal services. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate additional contracts with railroads to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain multiple providers, which could limit our ability to provide this service. Our brokerage business is dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. These third-party providers seek other freight opportunities and may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties, or increases in the prices we must pay to secure such services, could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. If our investment in Transportation Resource Partners is not successful, we may be forced to write off part or all of our investment, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We have invested, either directly or indirectly through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, in TRP and its related funds, which are companies that make privately negotiated equity investments. Due to portfolio losses in the past, we have recorded impairment charges in prior periods to reflect the other-than-temporary decrease in fair value of the portfolio. If TRP's financial position declines, we could be forced to write down all or part of our investment which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on computer and communications systems, and a systems failure or unavailability could cause a significant disruption to and adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently maintain our computer system at our Phoenix, Arizona headquarters, along with computer equipment at each of our service centers. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, malware, hacking, and other events beyond our control. In an attempt to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operations should a disaster occur, we have redundant computer systems and networks and deploy the backup systems from an alternative location. However, we cannot predict the extent to which such location would be affected, and this alternative location may also be subject to the same interruptions as may affect our Phoenix headquarters. In the event of a significant system failure, our business could experience significant disruption, which could adversely affect our business and operations. Efforts by labor unions could divert management's attention and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We face the risk that Congress or one or more states will approve legislation significantly affecting our business and our relationship with our employees, such as the previously proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. Any attempt to organize by our employees could result in increased legal and other associated costs. In addition, if we were to enter into a collective bargaining agreement, the terms could negatively affect our costs, efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 