Risk Factors Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and growth outlook. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. The most significant of these factors are recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers’ inventory levels, excess tractor or trailer capacity in comparison with shipping demand, and downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers and in regions of the country where we have a significant amount of business, that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates or equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. Adverse economic conditions also may harm our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. We are also subject to increases in costs that are outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, declines in the resale value of used equipment, increases in interest rates, fuel prices, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance, revenue equipment, and healthcare for our employees. We could be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at our service centers or at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations. In addition, we cannot predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. Our growth may not continue at historical rates. We have experienced significant and rapid growth in revenue and profits since the inception of our business in 1990, although growth has slowed the past two years. There can be no assurance that our business will return to its historical growth rate in the future or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. If the growth in our regional operations slows or stagnates, if we are unable to commit sufficient resources to our regional operations, or if we were to expand into a market with insufficient economic activity or human resources, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to our service centers in Phoenix, Arizona, we have established service centers throughout the United States in order to serve markets in these regions. These regional operations require the commitment of additional personnel and/or revenue equipment, as well as management resources, for future development. Should the growth in our regional operations slow or stagnate, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. As we continue to expand, it may become more difficult to identify large cities that can support a service center, and we may expand into smaller cities where there is less economic activity and room for growth and fewer driver and non-driver personnel to support the service center. We may encounter operating conditions in these new markets that differ substantially from those previously experienced. We may not be able to duplicate our regional operating strategy successfully throughout the United States, or perhaps outside the United States, and it might take longer than expected or require a more substantial financial commitment than anticipated. In addition, the commencement of operations outside our existing lines of business is subject to the risks inherent in entering new lines of business, including, but not limited to: unfamiliarity with pricing, service, operational, and liability issues; the risk that customer relationships may be difficult to obtain or that we may have to reduce rates to gain customer relationships; the risk that the specialized equipment may not be adequately utilized; and the risk that claims may exceed our past experience. 9 Table of Contents Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees’ health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed. If these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Increased prices and reduced efficiency relating to new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to higher prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, for among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to the pricing power among equipment manufacturers. In addition, the engines used in our newer tractors are subject to emissions control regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The regulations require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines for 2007 through 2010. Compliance with such regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and could impair equipment productivity, lower fuel mileage, and increase our operating expenses. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values realized from the disposition of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations as the regulations become effective. Over the past several years, some manufacturers have significantly increased new equipment prices, in part to meet new engine design requirements. We have trade-in and/or repurchase commitments that specify, among other things, what our primary equipment vendors will pay us for disposal of a substantial portion of our revenue equipment. The prices we expect to receive under these arrangements may be higher than the prices we would receive in the open market. We may suffer a financial loss upon disposition of our equipment if these vendors refuse or are unable to meet their financial obligations under these agreements, if we fail to enter into definitive agreements that reflect the terms we expect, if we fail to enter into similar arrangements in the future, or if we do not purchase the required number of replacement units from the vendors. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather related, and market factors that are generally outside our control and each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have sought to recover a portion of short-term increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges that can be collected do not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel. To the extent we are not successful in these negotiations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Difficulty in driver and independent contractor recruitment and retention may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, could have a materially adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our independent contractors are responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs, and significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek higher compensation from us or seek other opportunities within or outside the trucking industry. Although competition for drivers, which in the past several years has been extremely intense, eased slightly at certain times during 2008, if a shortage of drivers were to occur, or if we were unable to continue to attract and contract with independent contractors, we could be forced to, among other things, limit our growth, increase the number of our tractors without drivers (which would lower our profitability), or further adjust our driver compensation package, which could adversely affect our profitability if not offset by a corresponding increase in rates. 10 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in regulations or increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various government agencies, including the Department of Transportation ("DOT"). The DOT, through the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ("FMCSA"), imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. New rules that limit driver hours-of-service were adopted effective January 4, 2004, and then modified effective October 1, 2005 (the "2005 Rules"). In July 2007, a federal appeals court vacated portions of the 2005 Rules. Two of the key portions that were vacated include the expansion of the driving day from 10 hours to 11 hours, and the "34-hour restart," which allowed drivers to restart calculations of the weekly on-duty time limits after the driver had at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. The court indicated that, in addition to other reasons, it vacated these two portions of the 2005 Rules because FMCSA failed to provide adequate data supporting its decision to increase the driving day and provide for the 34-hour restart. In November 2008, following the submission of additional data by FMCSA and a series of appeals and related court rulings, FMCSA published its final rule, which retains the 11 hour driving day and the 34-hour restart. However, advocacy groups may continue to challenge the final rule. We are unable to predict how a court may rule on such challenges and to what extent the new presidential administration may become involved in this issue. On the whole, however, we believe a court's decision to strike down the final rule would decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. We are also unable to predict the effect of any new rules that might be proposed if the final rule is stricken by a court, but any such proposed rules could increase costs in our industry or decrease productivity. On December 26, 2007, the FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rule Making in the Federal Register regarding minimum requirements for entry level driver training. Under the proposed rule, a commercial driver's license applicant would be required to present a valid driver training certificate obtained from an accredited institution or program. Entry-level drivers applying for a Class A commercial driver's license would be required to complete a minimum of 120 hours of training, consisting of 76 classroom hours and 44 driving hours. The current regulations do not require a minimum number of training hours and require only classroom education. Drivers who obtain their first commercial driver's license during the three-year period after the FMCSA issues a final rule would be exempt. The FMCSA has not established a deadline for issuing the final rule, but the comment period expired on May 23, 2008. If the rule is approved as written, this rule could materially affect the number of potential new drivers entering the industry and, accordingly, negatively affect our results of operations. In general, the increasing burden of regulation raises our costs and lowers our efficiency. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial facilities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Two of our service centers are located adjacent to environmental "superfund" sites. Although we have not been named as a potentially responsible party in either case, we are potentially exposed to claims that we may have contributed to environmental contamination in the areas in which we operate. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our service centers. 11 Table of Contents Our Phoenix service center is located on land identified as potentially having groundwater contamination resulting from the release of hazardous substances by persons who have operated in the general vicinity. The area has been classified as a state superfund site. We have been located at our Phoenix facility since 1990 and, during such time, have not been identified as a potentially responsible party with regard to the groundwater contamination, and we do not believe that our operations have been a source of groundwater contamination. Our Indianapolis service center is located approximately one-tenth of a mile east of Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation, a federal superfund site listed on the National Priorities List for clean-up. The Reilly site has known soil and groundwater contamination. There also are other sites in the general vicinity of our Indianapolis property that have known contamination. Environmental reports obtained by us have disclosed no evidence that activities on our Indianapolis property have caused or contributed to the area’s contamination but it is possible that we could be responsible for clean up costs regardless. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Historically, acquisitions have been a part of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. As we continue to expand into new regions, we may experience greater operating variances due to the seasonal pattern of the transportation industry, which may have a materially adverse effect on our operations. Results of operations in the transportation industry frequently show a seasonal pattern, with lower revenue and higher operating expenses being common in the winter months. As we continue to expand our operations throughout the United States, we could experience greater operating variances due to periodic seasonal weather in other regions than we have previously experienced, which variance could have a materially adverse effect on our operations. If we are unable to retain our key employees or find, develop, and retain service center managers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the services of certain key employees, including, but not limited to: Kevin P. Knight, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Gary J. Knight, our Vice Chairman of the Board; Keith T. Knight, our Chief Operating Officer; Casey Comen, our Executive Vice President of Sales; Michael K. Liu, our President of Knight Transportation Dry Van; Erick Kutter, our President of Knight Refrigerated, LLC; Greg Ritter, our President of Knight Brokerage, LLC; Larry V. Knight, our President of Knight Intermodal, LLC; and David Jackson, our Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of these key employees, and the loss of any of their services could negatively impact our operations and future profitability. Additionally, we must, because of our regional operating strategy, continue to find, develop, and retain service center managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. Failing to find, develop, and retain a core group of service center managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents We have several major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a number of major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our top 25 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue; our top 10 customers, approximately 25% of our revenue; and our top 5 customers, approximately 16% of our revenue. Generally, we do not have long term contractual relationships with our customers, and we cannot assure you that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our investment in Transportation Resource Partners is not successful, we may be forced to write off part or all of our investment, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We have invested, either directly or indirectly through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, in Transportation Resource Partners and its related funds (together, "TRP"), which are companies that make privately negotiated equity investments. Due to portfolio losses in the past, we have recorded impairment charges in prior periods to reflect the other-than-temporary decrease in fair value of the portfolio. If TRP’s financial position declines, we could be forced to write down all or part of our investment which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on computer and communications systems, and a systems failure could cause a significant disruption to our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently maintain our computer system at our Phoenix, Arizona headquarters, along with computer equipment at each of our service centers. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. In an attempt to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operations should a disaster occur, we have redundant computer systems and networks and deploy the backup systems from an alternative location. However, this alternative location may be subject to the same interruptions as may affect our Phoenix headquarters. In the event of a significant system failure, our business could experience significant disruption. Efforts by labor unions could divert management attention and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Although we have never signed a collective bargaining agreement since our company was founded, we always face the risk that Congress or one or more states will approve legislation significantly affecting our businesses and our relationship with our employees, such as the proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. Any attempt to organize by our employees could result in increased legal and other associated costs. In addition, if we were to enter into a collective bargaining agreement, the terms could negatively affect our costs, efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 13 Table of Contents Item 