Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The current economy has negatively impacted the hotel industry and our business. The current difficulties in the credit markets, a soft economy and apprehension among consumers have negatively impacted the hotel industry and our business. In recent years, the slowing economy has caused a softening in business travel, especially among construction-related workers, a particularly strong guest group for many of our hotels. Accordingly, our financial results and growth could be harmed if the economic slowdown continues for a significant period or becomes worse. The weak economy may impact our current borrowings. As discussed in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below and Note 6 of our financial statements contained herein, during March 2011 we asked for and received waivers of certain covenants from lenders. If our plans to meet our liquidity requirements in the weak economy are not successful, we may violate our future loan covenants. If we violate covenants in our indebtedness agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on favorable terms, if at all. The impact of the weak economy on lenders may impact our future borrowings. The weakness of the national economy has increased the financial instability of some lenders. As a result, we expect lenders may continue to maintain tight lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain future revolving credit facilities on terms similar to the terms of our current revolving credit facilities or to obtain long-term financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain cost-effective financing. We cannot assure you that we will qualify, or remain qualified, as a REIT. We currently are taxed as a REIT, and we expect to qualify as a REIT for future taxable years, but we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, all of our earnings will be subject to federal income taxation, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, and we will not be required to distribute our income to our stockholders. Litigation with our primary hotel manager and any transition to one or more new managers could disrupt our hotel operations and present other risks. 9 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter of 2010, we solicited bids from hotel management companies to manage our hotels. We expect to complete our review process, and make a decision, if any, on a manager or managers for our hotels during the first half of 2011. Our management agreement with Royco Hotels, the manager of a majority of our hotels, terminates on December 31, 2011, and is subject to an automatic five-year extension thereafter if certain conditions are met. In addition, provisions in the management agreement permit either party to terminate the management agreement on 60 days notice if a net operating income (“NOI”) target of 8.5% of total investment in hotels is not achieved for a fiscal year. In 2009 and 2010, NOI as a percentage of total hotel investment was less than 8.5%. Additionally, one of the conditions for an automatic extension of the management agreement is that an average annual NOI target of at least 10% is achieved during the four years ending December 31, 2010. Annual NOI as a percentage of total hotel investment has not exceeded 10% in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. We have been advised by Royco Hotels that it believes our potential termination / nonrenewal of Royco Hotels is a breach of the management agreement between us and Royco Hotels. On December 15, 2010, Royco Hotels filed a complaint against us in the District Court of Douglas County, Nebraska alleging breach of the management agreement and other complaints related to the solicitation of bids from other management companies, and seeking alleged damages. Royco Hotels has not met the NOI conditions of the agreement and consequently we do not believe that we have breached the management agreement or that any damages are due to Royco Hotels. Royco Hotels continues to manage our hotels under the management agreement. We may experience decreased occupancy and other significant disruptions at our hotels and in our operations generally due to the litigation with Royco Hotels and transition to one or more new hotel managers. In addition, any new hotel managers may operate other hotels that may compete with our hotels or divert attention away from the management of our hotels, may require management agreements with terms that are not favorable to us and may not be successful in managing our hotels. Current economic conditions have adversely affected the valuation of our hotels which may result in further impairment charges on our properties. We analyze our assets for impairment when events or circumstances occur that indicate an asset’s carrying value may not be recoverable. For impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property’s carrying value over its fair value. Our operating results for 2010 and 2009 included $8.2 million and $24.1 million, respectively, of impairment charges related to our hotels sold, held for sale, and held for use. As a result of continued economic weakness, we may incur additional impairment charges, which will negatively affect our results of operations. We can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third parties. In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot operate any hotel or participate in the decisions affecting the daily operations of any hotel. Under the REIT Modernization Act of 1999, REITs are permitted to lease their hotels to TRSs. However, a TRS, such as TRS Lessee, may not operate or manage the leased hotels and, therefore, must enter into management agreements with third-party eligible independent contractors to manage the hotels. Thus, an independent operator under a management agreement with TRS Lessee controls the daily operations of each of our hotels. Under the terms of the management agreements between TRS Lessee and Royco Hotels and HLC, our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding the hotels is limited. We depend on Royco Hotels and HLC to adequately operate our hotels as provided in the management agreements. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner 10 Table of Contents that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, revenue per available room and average daily rates, we may not be able to force Royco Hotels or HLC to change their methods of operation of our hotels. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the management agreement with TRS Lessee, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the applicable management agreement. If any of the foregoing occurs at franchised hotels, our relationship with the franchisors may be damaged, and we may be in breach of one or more of our franchise agreements. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace a management company, we may experience decreased occupancy and other significant disruptions at our hotels and in our operations generally. Failure of the hotel industry to continue to improve or remain stable may adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies, which, in turn, would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business strategy is focused in the hotel industry, and we cannot assure you that hotel industry fundamentals will continue to improve or remain stable. Economic slowdown and world events outside our control, such as terrorism, have adversely affected the hotel industry in the recent past and if these events reoccur, may adversely affect the industry in the future. In the event conditions in the hotel industry do not continue to improve or remain stable, our ability to execute our business strategies will be adversely affected, which, in turn, would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Arranging financing for acquisitions and dispositions of hotels is difficult in the current capital markets. The capital markets are weakened as a consequence of the weak economy. Although we will continue to carefully evaluate and discuss both buying and selling opportunities, debt and equity financing could be a challenge to obtain for acquisitions and dispositions of hotels. We face competition for the acquisition of hotels and we may not be successful in identifying or completing hotel acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth. One component of our business strategy is expansion through acquisitions, and we may not be successful in identifying or completing acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy, particularly in the current economy. We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, REITs, hotel companies and others who are engaged in the acquisition of hotels. This competition for hotel investments may increase the price we pay for hotels and these competitors may succeed in acquiring those hotels that we seek to acquire. Furthermore, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater marketing and financial resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing for suitable hotels may increase in the future, which would increase demand for these hotels and the prices we must pay to acquire them. If we pay higher prices for hotels, our returns on investment and profitability may be reduced. Also, future acquisitions of hotels or hotel companies may not yield the returns we expect and may result in stockholder dilution. Our TRS lessee structure subjects us to the risk of increased operating expenses. Our hotel management agreements require us to bear the operating risks of our hotel properties. Our operating risks include not only changes in hotel revenues and changes in TRS Lessee’s ability to pay the rent due under the leases, but also increased operating expenses, including, among other things: • wage and benefit costs; • repair and maintenance expenses; • energy costs; • property taxes; 11 Table of Contents • insurance costs; and • other operating expenses. Any decreases in hotel revenues or increases in operating expenses could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. Our debt service obligations could adversely affect our operating results, may require us to liquidate our properties and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We seek to maintain a total stabilized debt level of no more than 40% to 55% of our aggregate property investment at cost. We, however, may change or eliminate this target at any time without the approval of our stockholders. At January 31, 2011, our debt to property investment was approximately 52.3%. In the future, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt. Incurring such debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payment of principal and interest; • we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our debt, thereby reducing the cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future investment opportunities or other purposes; • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and • the use of leverage could adversely affect our stock price and the ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we violate covenants in our indebtedness agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on favorable terms, if at all. Our Great Western Bank and Wells Fargo Bank credit facilities contain cross-default provisions which would allow Great Western Bank and Wells Fargo Bank to declare a default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we default on certain other loans, and such default would permit that lender to accelerate our indebtedness under any such loan. Approximately $23.3 million of the Company’s debt is scheduled to mature in 2011. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay our debt at maturity, we intend to refinance this debt through additional debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities, or additional equity financings. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancings, increases in interest expense could adversely affect our cash flow, and, consequently, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of our hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses adversely affecting cash flow from operating activities. In addition, we may place mortgages on our hotel properties to secure our line of credit or other debt. To the extent we cannot meet these debt service obligations, we risk losing some or all of those properties to foreclosure. Additionally, our debt covenants could impair our planned strategies and, if violated, result in a default of our debt obligations. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on our floating rate debt and could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders, as well as reduce funds available for our operations, future investment opportunities or other purposes. At January 31, 2011, approximately 25.3% of our debt had floating rates. We may obtain in the future one or more forms of interest rate protection—in the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements—to “hedge” against the possible negative effects of 12 Table of Contents interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will adequately mitigate the adverse effects of interest rate increases or that counterparties under these agreements will honor their obligations. In addition, we may be subject to risks of default by hedging counterparties. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. Our ability to make distributions on our common and preferred stock is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvement requirements. As a REIT, we generally are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, each year to our stockholders. Downturns in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotel properties may affect our ability to declare or pay distributions to our stockholders. Further, we may not generate sufficient cash in order to fund distributions to our stockholders, which may require us to sell assets or borrow money to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. Among the factors which could adversely affect our results of operations and our distributions to stockholders are reduced net operating profits or operating losses, increased debt service requirements and capital expenditures at our hotel properties. Among the factors which could reduce our net operating profits are decreases in hotel property revenues and increases in hotel property operating expenses. Hotel property revenue can decrease for a number of reasons, including increased competition from a new supply of rooms and decreased demand for rooms. These factors can reduce both occupancy and room rates at our hotel properties. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other factors, our actual results of operations, debt service requirements, capital expenditure requirements for our properties and our operating expenses. We suspended our quarterly common stock dividend in March 2009 to preserve our capital in a difficult economic environment. Our future dividends on our preferred stock may be reduced or also suspended if economic circumstances warrant. We have restrictive debt covenants that could adversely affect our ability to run our business. We file quarterly loan compliance certificates with certain of our lenders. Weakness in the economy, and the lodging industry at large, may result in our non-compliance with our loan covenants. Such non-compliance with our loan covenants may result in our lenders restricting the use of our operating funds for capital improvements to our existing hotels, including improvements required by our franchise agreements or calling the debt. We cannot assure you that our loan covenants will permit us to maintain our historic business strategy. Our restrictive debt covenants may jeopardize our tax status as a REIT. To maintain our REIT status, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders annually. In addition, we are subject to a 4% non-deductible excise tax if the actual amount distributed to shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the federal income tax laws. In the event we do not comply with our debt service obligations, our lenders may limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, which could adversely affect our REIT status. 13 Table of Contents Operating our hotels under franchise agreements could adversely affect distributions to our shareholders. Eighty six of our hotels operate under third party franchise agreements and we are subject to the risks of concentrating our hotel investments in several franchise brands. These risks include reductions in business following negative publicity related to any one of our particular brands. Risks associated with our brands could adversely affect our lease revenues and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. Our franchisors periodically inspect our hotels to ensure that we and TRS Lessee follow their standards. Failure to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. As a condition of our continued holding of a franchise license, a franchisor could also possibly require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. Loss of a franchise license for several of our hotels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. This loss of revenues could, therefore, also adversely affect our cash available for distribution to shareholders. Our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth. We are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders each year in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. Our debt service obligations and distribution requirements limit our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and hotel development through retained earnings. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing. Neither our articles of incorporation nor our bylaws limit the amount of debt we can incur. Our Board of Directors can implement and modify a debt limitation policy without shareholder approval. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity financing or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain any financing on favorable terms. We may not be able to complete development of new hotels on time or within budget. We may develop hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise. New project development is subject to a number of risks that could cause increased costs or delays in our ability to generate revenue from any development hotel, reducing our cash available for distribution to shareholders. These risks include: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • competition for suitable development sites; • receipt of zoning, land use, building, construction, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and • substantial development costs in connection with projects that are not completed. We may not be able to complete the development of any projects we begin and, if completed, our development and construction activities may not be completed in a timely manner or within budget. 14 Table of Contents We may also rehabilitate hotels that we believe are underperforming. These rehabilitation projects will be subject to the same risks as development projects. Hotels that we develop have no operating history and may not achieve levels of occupancy that result in levels of operating income that provide us with an attractive return on our investment. The new hotels that we may develop will have no operating history. These hotels, both during the start-up period and after they have stabilized, may not achieve anticipated levels of occupancy, average daily room rates, or gross operating margins, and could result in operating losses and reduce the amount of distributions to our shareholders. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a co-venturer’s financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may co-invest in the future with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Investments in joint ventures may require that we provide the joint venture entity with the right of first offer or right of first refusal to acquire any new property we consider acquiring directly. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers. For example, we may be required to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership, joint venture or other entity for the purchase or renovation of a hotel property. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner or co-venturer in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. Our business could be disrupted if we need to find a new manager upon termination of an existing management agreement. If Royco Hotels, HLC, or any other hotel managers that we engage fails to materially comply with the terms of the management agreement, we have the right to terminate the management agreement. Upon termination, we would have to find another manager to manage the property. We cannot operate the hotels directly due to federal income tax restrictions. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another manager or that, if another manager were found, we would be able to enter into a new management agreement favorable to us. In addition, any new manager may operate other hotels that may compete with our hotels or divert attention away from the management of our hotels and may not be successful in managing our hotels. Our franchisors may require us to make substantial capital improvements to the hotels prior to their approval, if required, of a new manager. There would be disruption during any change of hotel management that could adversely affect our operating results and reduce our distributions to our shareholders. For example, we are currently involved in litigation with Royco Hotels and may transition to one or more new hotel managers. Information and risks related to our litigation with Royco Hotels and transition to one or more new managers is discussed above in the risk factor titled “Litigation with our primary hotel manager and any transition to one or more new managers could disrupt our hotel operations and present other risks.” We may not be able to sell hotels on favorable terms. We sold nine hotels in 2010, and we sold eight hotels in 2009. At December 31, 2010, we have eighteen hotel properties held for sale. We may not be able to sell such hotels on favorable terms, and such hotels may be sold at a loss. As with acquisitions, we face competition for buyers of our hotel properties. Other sellers of hotels may have 15 Table of Contents the financial resources to dispose of their hotels on unfavorable terms that we would be unable to accept. If we cannot find buyers for any properties that are designated for sale, we will not be able to implement our disposition strategy. In the event that we cannot fully execute our disposition strategy or realize the benefits therefrom, we may not be able to satisfy our liquidity needs (including meeting our debt service obligations) and will not be able to fully execute our growth strategy. Geographic concentration of our hotels will make our business vulnerable to economic downturns in the Midwestern and Eastern United States. Most of our hotels are located in the Midwestern and Eastern United States. Economic conditions in the Midwestern and Eastern United States will significantly affect our revenues and the value of our hotels. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other similar factors may adversely affect the economic climate in these areas. Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for hotels in the Midwestern and Eastern United States and our markets in particular would therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand for hotels we acquire in new geographic markets could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As part of our business plan, we may develop or acquire hotels in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our franchise brands. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other areas. These hotels may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels, while at the same time, we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at a new hotel property, therefore, could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. An economic recession and industry downturn could adversely affect our results of operations. If room supply outpaces demand, our operating margins may deteriorate and we may be unable to execute our business plan. In addition, if this trend continues, we may be unable to continue to meet our debt service obligations or to obtain necessary additional financing. Our borrowing costs are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on our floating rate debt including any borrowings under our credit facilities. Any borrowings under our credit facilities having floating interest rates may increase due to market conditions. Adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. We could be required to liquidate one or more of our hotel investments at times which may not permit us to receive an attractive return on our investments in order to meet our debt service obligations. Future acquisitions may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources, may not be efficiently integrated into operations, and may result in stockholder dilution. Our business strategy may not ultimately be successful and may not provide positive returns on our investments. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations. If the integration of our acquisitions into our management companies’ operations is not accomplished as efficiently as planned, we will not achieve the expected operating results from the acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities in connection with any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. 16 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our executive officers to drive our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to replace key individuals may be difficult because of the limited number of individuals with the breadth of skills and experience needed to excel in the hotel industry. There can be no assurance that we would be able to hire, train, retain or motivate such individuals. Risks Related to the Hotel Industry Our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be affected by factors in the hotel industry that are beyond our control. Operating Risks Our hotels are subject to various operating risks found throughout the hotel industry. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These include, among other things, the following: • competitors with substantially greater marketing and financial resources than us; • over-building in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • terrorist incidents which may deter travel; • increases in hotel operating costs, energy costs, airline fares and other expenses, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; and • adverse effects of general, regional and local economic conditions. These factors could adversely affect the amount of rent we receive from leasing our hotels and reduce the net operating profits of TRS Lessee, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Decreases in room revenues of our hotels will result in reduced operating profits for TRS Lessee and decreased lease revenues to our company under our current percentage leases with TRS Lessee. Competition and Financing for Acquisitions We compete for investment opportunities with entities that have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we can manage wisely. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms. Additionally, current economic conditions present difficult challenges to obtaining financing for acquisitions. Seasonality of Hotel Business The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. Generally, occupancy rates, hotel revenues, and operating results are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters, with the exception of our hotels located in Florida. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our lease revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including bad weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in our first and fourth quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues. 17 Table of Contents Investment Concentration in Particular Segments of Single Industry Our current investment strategy, adopted in 2009 as a response to near term and projected long term market trends, is to acquire interests in well-located, midscale properties with national flags, while divesting underperforming and/or non-branded hotels. Our entire business is hotel-related. Therefore, a downturn in the hotel industry in general will have a material adverse effect on our lease revenues and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Capital Expenditures Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The franchisors of our hotels also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. The costs of all of these capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and reduce the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. These renovations may give rise to the following risks: • possible environmental problems; • construction cost overruns and delays; • a possible shortage of available cash to fund renovations and the related possibility that financing for these renovations may not be available to us on affordable terms; and • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after renovations have begun. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we spent approximately $4.3 million for capital improvements to our hotels. Recent economic trends, the military action in Afghanistan and Iraq and prospects for future terrorist acts and military action have adversely affected the hotel industry generally, and similar future events could adversely affect the industry in the future. Terrorist attacks and the after-effects (including the prospects for more terror attacks in the United States and abroad), combined with economic trends and the U.S. led military action in Afghanistan and Iraq, substantially reduced business and leisure travel and lodging industry RevPAR generally. We cannot predict the extent to which these factors will directly or indirectly impact your investment in our common stock, the lodging industry or our operating results in the future. Declining RevPAR at our hotels would reduce our net income and restrict our ability to fund capital improvements at our hotels and our ability to make distributions to stockholders necessary to maintain our status as a REIT. Additional terrorist attacks, acts of war or similar events could have further material adverse effects on the markets on which shares of our stock will trade, the lodging industry in general and our operations in particular. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We intend to maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are no assurances that current coverage will continue to be available at reasonable rates. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes and floods, losses from foreign or domestic terrorist activities, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. Initially, we do not expect to obtain terrorism insurance on our hotel properties because it is costly. Lenders may require such insurance and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. Depending on our access to capital, liquidity and the value of the properties securing the affected loan in relation to the balance of the loan, a default could reduce our net income and limit our ability to obtain future financing. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue 18 Table of Contents from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. The hotel business is capital intensive, and our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth. Our hotel properties will require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. Acquisitions or development of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures. See our risk factors above concerning the impact of the weakening economy on capital markets, the hotel industry and borrowing. The lenders under some of the mortgage debt that we will assume will require us to set aside varying amounts each year for capital improvements at our hotels. We may not be able to fund capital improvements or acquisitions solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year to maintain our REIT tax status. Consequently, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund hotel acquisitions and improvements. As a result, our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel development through retained earnings is very limited. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing which will depend on market conditions. Neither our charter nor our bylaws limits the amount of debt that we can incur. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. Noncompliance with governmental regulations could adversely affect our operating results. Environmental Matters Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require the owner of a contaminated property to clean up the property, even if the owner did not know of or was not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of cleanup, contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Under these environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, like a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Furthermore, court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in a hotel may seek to recover damages if he suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities at a property. One example is laws that require a business using chemicals to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. Our company could be responsible for the costs discussed above if it found itself in one or more of these situations. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could affect the funds available for distribution to our shareholders. To determine whether any costs of this nature might be required, we commissioned Phase I environmental site assessments, or “ESAs” before we acquired our hotels, and in 2002, commissioned new ESAs for 32 of our hotels in conjunction with a refinancing of the debt obligations of those hotels. These studies typically included a review of historical information and a site visit, but not soil or groundwater testing. We obtained the ESAs to help us identify whether we might be responsible for cleanup costs or other costs in connection with our hotels. The ESAs on our hotels did not reveal any environmental conditions that are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, results of operations or liquidity. However, ESAs do not always identify all potential problems or environmental liabilities. Consequently, we may have material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Changes in Governmental Rules and Regulations Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all public accommodations must meet various 19 Table of Contents federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants obtaining damages. If we were required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and meet our other obligations could be adversely affected. General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotel properties or investments in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. In addition, our management agreements with Royco Hotels and HLC require us to pay a termination fee upon the sale of a certain number of hotels, which will limit our ability to sell hotel properties. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist acts such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, which may result in uninsured losses. We may decide to sell our hotel properties in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property or investment for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property or loan. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that hotel property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that hotel property. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotel properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our hotels may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property, which would reduce our cash available for distribution, 20 Table of Contents and we could face legal claims from guests. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our guests, employees or our management companies and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure Our failure to qualify as a REIT under the federal tax laws would result in adverse tax consequences. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. We currently operate as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we would be successful in operating so that we can qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification as a REIT. We have not applied for or obtained rulings from the Internal Revenue Service that we will qualify as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax. If we cease to be a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status during the four calendar years after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% non-deductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. As a result, for example, of differences between cash flow and the accrual of income and expenses for tax purposes, or of nondeductible expenditures, our REIT taxable income in any given year could exceed our cash available for distribution. In addition, to the extent we may retain earnings of TRS Lessee in those subsidiaries, such amount of cash would not be available for distribution to our stockholders to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. Accordingly, we may be required to borrow money or sell assets to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% non-deductible excise tax in a particular year. The formation of TRS Lessee increases our overall tax liability. TRS Lessee is subject to federal and state income tax on its taxable income, which in the case of TRS Lessee currently consists and generally will continue to consist of revenues from the hotel properties leased by TRS Lessee, net of the operating expenses for such properties and rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of TRS Lessee allows us to participate in the operating income from our hotel properties in addition to receiving rent, that operating income is fully subject to income tax. Such taxes could be substantial. The after-tax net income of TRS Lessee is available for distribution to us. We incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with TRS Lessee that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. For example, to the extent that the rent paid by TRS Lessee exceeds an arm’s-length rental amount, such amount potentially is subject to the excise tax. We intend that all transactions between us and TRS Lessee will continue to be conducted on an arm’s-length basis and, therefore, that the rent paid by TRS Lessee to us will not be subject to the excise tax. 21 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego attractive opportunities that could otherwise generate strong risk-adjusted returns and instead pursue less attractive opportunities, or none at all. To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could result in an overall loss on our investments. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we may be able to preserve our REIT status by benefiting from certain statutory relief provisions. Except with respect to a de minimis failure of the 5% asset test or the 10% vote or value test, we can maintain our REIT status only if the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. In that case, we will be required to dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which we identified the failure, and we will be required to pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate (currently 35%) multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Taxation of dividend income could make our common stock less attractive to investors and reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a stockholder. Legislation enacted in 2003, 2006, and 2010 generally reduced the maximum rate of tax applicable to individuals, trusts and estates on dividend income from regular C corporations to 15.0% through 2012. This reduced substantially the so-called “double taxation” (that is, taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that has generally applied to corporations that are not taxed as REITs. Generally, dividends from REITs do not qualify for the dividend tax reduction because, as a result of the dividends paid deduction to which REITs are entitled, REITs generally do not pay corporate level tax on income that they distribute to stockholders. As a result of that legislation, individual, trust, and estate investors could view stocks of non-REIT corporations as more attractive relative to shares of REITs than was the case previously because the dividends paid by non-REIT corporations are subject to lower tax rates for such investors. Provisions of our charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. In order to maintain our REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. Our articles of incorporation contain the ownership limitation, which prohibits both direct and indirect ownership of more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock or 9.9% of any series of our preferred stock by any person, subject to several exceptions. Generally, any shares of our capital stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the ownership limitation. These ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our 22 Table of Contents board of directors’ approval, even if our stockholders believe the change of control is in their best interests. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock, and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the preferred stock. Furthermore, our board of directors may, without any action by the stockholders, amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock of any class or series of preferred stock that we have authority to issue. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests. Our ownership limitation may prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our capital stock. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the ownership limitation described above or prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by our company or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limitation. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limitation or the other restrictions on transfer in our articles of incorporation bears the risk that he will suffer a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. We may be subject to the 100% prohibited transaction tax on the gain recognized on the hotels we sold. A REIT will incur a 100% tax on the net income derived from any sale or other disposition of property that the REIT holds primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. We undertook specific disposition programs beginning in 2001 (that included the sale of 23 hotels through December 31, 2004) and 2008 (that included the sale of nineteen hotels through December 31, 2010). We held the disposed hotels for an average period of nine years and did not acquire the hotels for purposes of resale. Accordingly, we do not believe any of those hotels were held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business. However, if the Internal Revenue Service would successfully assert that we held such hotels primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our business, the gain from such sales could be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax. The ability of our board of directors to change our major corporate policies may not be in your interest. Our board of directors determines our major corporate policies, including our acquisition, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. Our board may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without the vote or consent of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 