RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Indonesia We are incorporated in Indonesia and substantially all of our operations, assets and customers are located in Indonesia. As a result, future political, economic, legal and social conditions in Indonesia, as well as certain actions and policies which the Government may, or may not, take or adopt may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Domestic, regional or global economic changes may adversely affect our business The economic crisis which affected Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, from mid-1997 was characterized in Indonesia by, among other effects, currency depreciation, negative economic growth, high interest rates, social unrest and extraordinary political events. These conditions had a material adverse effect on Indonesian businesses, including a material adverse effect on the quality and growth of our customer base and service offerings, which depend on the health of the overall Indonesian economy. In addition, the economic crisis resulted in the failure of many Indonesian companies to meet their debt obligations. Many Indonesian companies have not fully recovered from the economic crisis, and many such companies are still in the process of restructuring their debt obligations or are engaged in disputes arising from defaults under their debt obligations. More recently, the global financial crisis which was triggered in part by the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States, caused failures of large U.S. financial institutions and rapidly evolved into a global credit crisis. U.S. bank failures were followed by failures in a number of European banks and declines in various stock indexes, as well as large reductions in the market value of equities and commodities worldwide including in Indonesia. The world economic downturn has adversely affected the economic performance of Indonesia resulting in declining economic growth, slowing household consumption and weakening investment due to loss of external demand and increased uncertainty in the world economy. These conditions have had a negative impact on Indonesian businesses and consumers and may result in reduced demand for telecommunication services. Volatility in oil prices and potential food shortages may also cause an economic slowdown in many countries, including Indonesia. An economic downturn in Indonesia could lead also to additional defaults by Indonesian borrowers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. The Government continues to have a large fiscal deficit and a high level of sovereign debt. Its foreign currency reserves are modest and the banking sector is weak and suffers from relatively high levels of non-performing loans. The current high inflation rate in Indonesia may also result in less disposable income available to consumers to spend or cause consumer purchasing power to decrease, which may reduce consumer demand for telecommunication services, including our services. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of emerging and other markets, or other factors, may cause increased volatility in the Indonesian financial markets and a slowdown in economic growth or negative economic growth in Indonesia. Any such increased volatility or slowdown or negative growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Political and social instability may adversely affect us Since 1998, Indonesia has experienced a process of democratic change, resulting in political and social events that have highlighted the unpredictable nature of Indonesia’s changing political landscape. These events have resulted in political instability as well as general social and civil unrest on certain occasions in the past few years. As a relatively new democratic country, Indonesia continues to face various socio-political issues and has, from time to time, experienced political instability and social and civil unrest. Such instances of unrest have highlighted the unpredictable nature of Indonesia’s changing political landscape. Indonesia also has many political parties, without any one party winning a clear majority to date. These events have resulted in political 6 Table of Contents instability, as well as general social and civil unrest on certain occasions in recent years. Although parliamentary and presidential elections proceeded smoothly in 2004, increased political activity can be expected in 2009 as a result of the parliamentary and senatorial elections in April 2009 and in anticipation of the presidential election scheduled in July 2009. For instance, in June 2001, demonstrations and strikes affected at least 19 cities after the Government mandated a 30.0% increase in fuel prices. Similar demonstrations occurred in January 2003, when the Government again tried to increase fuel prices, as well as electricity rates and telephone charges. In both instances, the Government was forced to drop or substantially reduce the proposed increases. Regional political instability remains problematic. In April 2006, hundreds of people were involved in a violent protest directed at Freeport’s gold mining operations in the province of Papua and there have been numerous clashes between supporters of separatist movements and the Indonesian military. In recent years, political instability in Maluku and Poso, a district in the province of Central Sulawesi, has intensified and clashes between religious groups in these regions have resulted in thousands of casualties and displaced persons. Political and related social developments in Indonesia have been unpredictable in the past, and we cannot assure you that social and civil disturbances will not occur in the future and on a wider scale, or that any such disturbances will not, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Indonesia is located in an earthquake zone and is subject to significant geological risks which could lead to social unrest and economic loss Many parts of Indonesia are vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions as well as droughts, power outages or other events beyond our control. In recent years, several natural disasters have occurred in Indonesia (in addition to the Asian tsunami in 2004), including a tsunami in Pangandaran in West Java in 2006, the earthquake in Jogyakarta in Central Java in 2006 and the hot mud eruption and subsequent flooding in East Java in 2006. Indonesia also experienced significant flooding in Jakarta in February 2007 and in Solo in Central Java in January 2008. As a result of these natural disasters, the Government has had to spend significant amounts on emergency aid and resettlement efforts. Most of these costs have been underwritten by foreign governments and international aid agencies. We cannot assure you that such aid will continue to be forthcoming, or that it will be delivered to recipients on a timely basis. If the Government is unable to timely deliver foreign aid to affected communities, political and social unrest could result. Additionally, recovery and relief efforts are likely to continue to impose a strain on the Government’s finances, and may affect its ability to meet its obligations on its sovereign debt. Any such failure on the part of the Government, or declaration by it of a moratorium on its sovereign debt, could trigger an event of default under numerous private-sector borrowings including those of our company, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us from potential losses resulting from such natural disasters and other events beyond our control. In addition, we cannot assure you that the premium payable for these insurance policies upon renewal will not increase substantially, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure you that future geological or meteorological occurrences will not have more of an impact on the Indonesian economy. A significant earthquake, other geological disturbance or weather-related natural disaster in any of Indonesia’s more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Indonesian economy and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 7 Table of Contents Terrorist activities in Indonesia could destabilize the country, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects Several bombing incidents have taken place in Indonesia, most significantly in October 2002 in Bali, a region of Indonesia previously considered safe from the unrest affecting other parts of the country. Other bombing incidents, although on a lesser scale, have also been committed in Indonesia on a number of occasions over the past few years, including at shopping centers and places of worship. In April 2003, a bomb exploded outside the main United Nations building in Jakarta, and in May 2003, a bomb exploded in front of the domestic terminal at Jakarta International Airport. In August 2003, a bomb exploded at the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, and in September 2004, a bomb exploded in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In May 2005, bomb blasts in Central Sulawesi killed at least 21 people and injured at least 60 people. On October 1, 2005, bomb blasts in Bali killed at least 23 people and injured at least 101 others. Indonesian, Australian and U.S. government officials have indicated that these bombings may be linked to an international terrorist organization. Demonstrations have taken place in Indonesia in response to plans for and subsequent to U.S., British and Australian military action in Iraq. More recently, in January 2007, sectarian terrorists conducted bombings in Poso. Further terrorist acts may occur in the future and may be directed at foreigners in Indonesia. Violent acts arising from, and leading to, instability and unrest could destabilize Indonesia and the Government and have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on investment and confidence in, and the performance of, the Indonesian economy, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Indonesia relies heavily on funding from multinational lenders, and the inability to obtain such funding would have adverse consequences for Indonesia and us The World Bank has been an important source of funding for Indonesia. The World Bank has expressed concern that the slow pace of institutional reforms in Indonesia, as well as the Government’s decentralization plan and particularly the empowerment of provincial governments to borrow, could lead to the central Government’s inability to service its debts. The World Bank’s lending program is subject to regular compliance reviews and can be reduced or withdrawn at anytime. As of December 31, 2008, the Government owed approximately US$8.97 billion to the World Bank. In addition, the Government relies on multinational lenders to fund its budget deficit. The members of the Paris Club, the former Consultative Group in Indonesia, or CGI, and the International Monetary Fund, or IMF, have been important sources of funding for the Government. The Paris Club is an informal voluntary group of creditor countries that seeks to coordinate solutions for payment difficulties experienced by debtor nations. The CGI was a group of donor countries and international organizations which met annually to coordinate donor assistance to Indonesia. The Government has successfully rescheduled its foreign debt several times. However, in 2004, the Government decided to end the IMF program and, as a result of this decision, the CGI publicly stated that it will no longer reschedule debt owed to its members or to other creditors by the Government. The Government ended its participation with the CGI in January 2007 and announced its intention to conduct direct discussions with creditors regarding the Government’s external debt. As of December 31, 2008, the Government’s outstanding external debt was approximately US$66.5 billion. The Government has recently issued several domestic retail, as well as international, bonds and may continue to acquire funds from the commercial markets in order to fulfill its financial needs. Given the Government’s fiscal deficit and modest foreign exchange reserves, the inability of the Government to obtain adequate funding as a result of a reduction or elimination of funding from the World Bank, the Paris Club, the CGI or other institutions or countries or through commercial markets could have adverse economic, political and social consequences in Indonesia, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that the Government will be able to obtain alternative funding to replace the funding previously provided by its current lenders or to supplement a reduction or elimination of funding from other sources. 8 Table of Contents Labor activism and unrest may adversely affect our business In March 2003, the Government enacted a manpower law, Law No. 13/2003, or the Labor Law, which, among other things, increased the amount of severance, service and compensation payments to terminated employees and implemented regulations allowing employees to unionize. The Labor Law also requires bipartite forums with participation from employers and employees and the participation of more than 50.0% of the employees of a company for a collective labor agreement to be negotiated and creates procedures that are more permissive to the staging of strikes. Under the Labor Law, employees who voluntarily resign are also entitled to payments for (i) unclaimed annual leaves, (ii) relocation expenses and (iii) compensation for housing and medical bills. Following the enactment, several labor unions urged the Indonesian Constitutional Court to declare the Labor Law unconstitutional and order the Government to revoke it. The Indonesian Constitutional Court declared the Labor Law valid except for certain provisions relating to (i) the procedures for an employer to terminate an employee who commits a serious mistake and (ii) governmental action against an employee who instigates or participates in an illegal labor strike, whether in the form of imprisonment or monetary penalty. The liberalization of regulations permitting the formation of labor unions combined with weak economic conditions has resulted, and will likely continue to result in, labor unrest and activism in Indonesia. The Government proposed to amend the manpower law in a manner which, in the view of labor activists, would result in reduced pension benefits, the increased use of outsourced employees and prohibitions on unions to conduct strikes. The proposal has been suspended and the new Government regulation addressing lay-offs of workers has not yet become effective. Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect the financial condition of Indonesian companies in general and the value of the Indonesian rupiah relative to other currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Depreciation in the value of the Indonesian rupiah may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects One of the most important immediate causes of the economic crisis which began in Indonesia in mid-1997 was the depreciation and volatility of the value of the Indonesian rupiah, as measured against other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Although the Indonesian rupiah has appreciated considerably from its low point of approximately Rp17,000 per U.S. dollar in 1998, it may experience volatility again in the future. During the period between January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Indonesian rupiah/U.S. dollar exchange rate ranged from a low of Rp12,400 per U.S. dollar to a high of Rp8,672 per U.S. dollar, and, during the year 2008, ranged from a low of Rp12,400 per U.S. dollar to a high of Rp9,051 per U.S. dollar. As a result, we recorded a loss on foreign exchange-net of Rp155.3 billion, and Rp885.7 billion in 2007 and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that further depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah against other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, will not occur. To the extent the Indonesian rupiah depreciates further from exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2008, our obligations under our accounts payable, procurements payable and our foreign currency-denominated loans payable and bonds payable would increase in Indonesian rupiah terms. Further depreciation of the Indonesia rupiah would result in additional losses on foreign exchange translation and significantly impact our other income and net income. In addition, while the Indonesian rupiah has generally been freely convertible and transferable (except that Indonesian banks may not transfer Indonesian rupiah to persons outside of Indonesia who lack a bona fide trade or investment purpose), from time to time, Bank Indonesia has intervened in the currency exchange markets in furtherance of its policies, either by selling Indonesian rupiah or by using its foreign currency reserves to purchase Indonesian rupiah. We cannot assure you that the current floating exchange rate policy of Bank Indonesia will not be modified or that the Government will take additional action to stabilize, maintain or increase the value of the Indonesian rupiah, or that any of these actions, if taken, will be successful. Modification of the current floating exchange rate policy could result in significantly higher domestic interest rates, liquidity shortages, capital or exchange controls or the withholding of additional financial assistance by multinational lenders. This could result in a reduction of economic activity, an economic recession, loan defaults or declining 9 Table of Contents usage by our subscribers, and as a result, we may also face difficulties in funding our capital expenditures and in implementing our business strategy. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to manage successfully our foreign currency exchange risk Changes in exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our debt obligations are denominated in Indonesian rupiah and a majority of our capital expenditures are, denominated in U.S. dollars. A substantial portion of our revenues are denominated in Indonesian rupiah, but a portion of our operating revenues are U.S. dollar-denominated or U.S. dollar-linked. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness in currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah, including the U.S. dollar, to finance further capital expenditures. We currently hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure principally because our annual U.S. dollar-denominated operating revenues are less than the sum of our U.S. dollar-denominated operating expenses and annual payments of U.S. dollar-denominated principal and interest payments. In an effort to manage our foreign currency exposure and lower our overall funding costs, we entered into several foreign currency swap contracts with three separate international financial institutions in 2005. In addition, from 2006 to 2008, we entered into several foreign currency swap contracts with six international financial institutions in an effort to reduce our foreign currency risk exposure. For these contracts, we pay either an upfront or fixed rate premium. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our exchange rate risk successfully in the future or that we will not be adversely affected by our exposure to exchange rate risk. Downgrades of credit ratings of the Government or Indonesian companies could adversely affect our business Beginning in 1997, certain recognized statistical rating organizations, including Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s Rating Group, or Standard & Poor’s, and Fitch Ratings, or Fitch, downgraded Indonesia’s sovereign rating and the credit ratings of various credit instruments of the Government and a large number of Indonesian banks and other companies. Indonesia’s sovereign foreign currency long-term debt is currently rated “Ba2 stable” by Moody’s, “BB stable” by Standard & Poor’s and “BB+ stable” by Fitch. These ratings reflect an assessment of the Government’s overall financial capacity to pay its obligations and its ability or willingness to meet its financial commitments as they become due. We cannot assure you that Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch or any other statistical rating organization will not downgrade the credit ratings of Indonesia or Indonesian companies, including us. Any such downgrade could have an adverse impact on liquidity in the Indonesian financial markets, the ability of the Government and Indonesian companies, including us, to raise additional financing and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. Interest rates on our floating rate Indonesian rupiah-denominated debt would also likely increase. Such events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Indonesian accounting standards differ from those in the United States We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with Indonesian GAAP, which differs from U.S. GAAP. As a result, our consolidated financial statements and reported earnings could be significantly different from those that would be reported under U.S. GAAP. We have prepared a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP of our consolidated net income for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 and our consolidated stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2007 and 2008, which reconciliation appears in Note 40 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. We are incorporated in Indonesia, and it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process or enforce judgments, on us within the United States We are a limited liability company incorporated in Indonesia, operating within the framework of Indonesian laws relating to foreign capital invested companies, and all of our significant assets are located in Indonesia. In 10 Table of Contents addition, several of our Commissioners and substantially all of our Directors reside in Indonesia and a substantial portion of the assets of such persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process, or enforce judgments, on us or such persons within the United States, or to enforce against us or such persons in the United States, judgments obtained in U.S. courts. We have been advised by our Indonesian legal advisor that judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the United States, are not enforceable in Indonesian courts, although such judgments could be admissible as non-conclusive evidence in a proceeding on the underlying claim in an Indonesian court. There is doubt as to whether Indonesian courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Indonesian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the United States. As a result, the claimant would be required to pursue claims against us or such persons in Indonesian courts. A renewed outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu or the outbreak of other epidemics could adversely affect our operations. Indonesia has been susceptible to epidemics, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and avian flu. The outbreak of SARS in China and other parts of Asia, including Indonesia, in 2003 had an adverse impact on a variety of businesses and the economy generally. More recently, Indonesia and other countries have experienced an outbreak of avian flu. Over 110 people in Indonesia have died from avian flu. If the outbreak of avian flu becomes more widespread, or there is a future outbreak of SARS or an outbreak of other epidemics in Indonesia, the economy could be adversely affected and we could also experience material disruptions to our operations, which in turn would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on interconnection agreements with our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line telephone networks We are dependent on interconnection agreements with our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line telephone networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. If any disputes involving such interconnection arrangements arise, whether due to a failure by a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations or for any other reason, one or more of our services may be delayed, interrupted or stopped, the quality of our services may be lowered, our customer churn rates may increase or our interconnection rates may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the Government established a new interconnection regime in February 2006, which became effective on January 1, 2007. This new regime defines operators controlling more than 25.0% of the market share as “dominant operators” and requires such operators to extend interconnection offers to other telecommunications operators to be approved by the Government. In addition, the new interconnection regime established a cost-based interconnection tariff scheme under which the operator of the network on which calls terminate would determine the interconnection charges to be received based upon a formula set forth in Regulation No. 8 / PER / M.KOMINFO / 02 / 2006. The new formula became effective as of January 1, 2007 and, as a result, operators were required to charge calls based on the cost of carrying such calls. Such interconnection charges must be calculated and submitted to the Directorate General of Post and Telecommunications, or the DGPT, for approval in the form of an Reference Interconnection Offer, or RIO. By the end of 2006, the Government approved the RIOs of Perusahaan Perseroan (Persero) PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia Tbk, or Telkom, PT Telekomunikasi Selular, or Telkomsel, and us. On April 11, 2008, the DGPT approved RIOs from Telkom, Telkomsel, and us which amended our previous RIOs. Recently, all telecommunications operators have entered into new umbrella agreements for interconnection. However, each operator must enter into an additional agreement to interconnect with another operator, which may lead to delays in the implementation of the new interconnection regulations. Failure to enter into such agreements may decrease our operating revenues received from, or increase the fees we pay to, other telecommunications operators for interconnection. 11 Table of Contents We operate in a legal and regulatory environment that is undergoing significant reforms. These reforms may result in increased competition, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenues, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us The regulatory reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector, which was initiated by the Government in 1999, has to a certain extent resulted in the liberalization of the telecommunications industry, including facilitation of new market entrants and changes to the competitive structure of the telecommunications industry. However, in recent years, the volume and complexity of regulatory changes has created an environment of considerable regulatory uncertainty. In addition, as the reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector continues, other competitors, potentially with greater resources than us, may enter the Indonesian telecommunications sector and compete with us in providing telecommunications services. In January 2007, the Government implemented new interconnection regulations and a new five-digit access code system for VoIP services. See “Risks Relating to Our Fixed Telecommunication Services Business—VoIP usage is increasing, and certain customers use VoIP services rather than traditional international long-distance services, which may continue to have a material adverse impact on our fixed telecommunications services business.” In connection with the Government’s implementation of interconnection regulations, we face considerable uncertainty in respect of interconnection tariffs, which constitutes one of our income resources. This income is gained from telecommunication traffic transmitted by other operators from and to our network. The Government annually determines the interconnection tariff formula used to calculate interconnection costs which should apply to all telecommunication operators in determining the amount of interconnection costs. The interconnection tariff formula determined by the Government has tended to yield declining interconnection costs year after year. Any decrease in the amount of interconnection costs might reduce our revenue and also our costs for inter-operator traffic. The reduction in the amount of revenue and interconnection cost would be mainly determined by the traffic volumes among operators. In the future, the Government may announce or implement other regulatory changes, such as changes in tariff policies, which may adversely affect our business or our existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with other domestic and foreign telecommunications operators or that regulatory changes, amendments or interpretations of current or future laws and regulations promulgated by the Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may become subject to limitations on foreign ownership in the telecommunication services business. Presidential Regulation No. 77 of 2007, as amended by Presidential Regulation No. 111 of 2007, or the Presidential Regulation, sets out the industries and business fields in which foreign investment is prohibited, restricted or subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions as stipulated by the applicable Governmental authorities, or the Negative List. The telecommunication industry is one of the industries set out in the Negative List, and foreign investment in the Indonesian telecommunication industry is accordingly subject to applicable restrictions and conditions. The Negative List is implemented by the Capital Investment Coordinating Board, or the BKPM. Restrictions applicable to the telecommunication industry are dependent upon the type of telecommunication business pursued by the company. Different limitation thresholds are applicable depending upon whether the business pertains to telecommunication networks or services. The limitation on foreign holdings in companies engaging in the telecommunication network business ranges from 49.0% – 65.0%, and the limitation on foreign shareholdings in Indonesian companies engaged in the provision of multimedia services (including data communication such as broadband wireless service), from 49.0% – 95.0%. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Presidential Regulation, the restrictions set forth therein shall not apply to investments that have been approved prior to the effectiveness of the Presidential Regulation; provided such investments are substantiated by a letter of investment approval issued by BKPM. Hence, the restrictions set forth in the Presidential Regulation should not be applicable to those investment approvals obtained by us prior to the effectiveness of the Presidential Regulation. Moreover, as we are a publicly listed company, we believe, notwithstanding that the percentage of foreign ownership in us exceeds 65.0%, that the Negative List restrictions do not apply to us. If the relevant regulatory authorities were to apply the Negative List to us, notwithstanding our status as a publicly listed company, our controlling or other foreign shareholders may be required to reduce their shareholding in us, 12 Table of Contents which could create downward pressure on the trading price for our shares and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. We may also be required to separate our business entity into two sectors, mobile or cellular, and fixed line or closed fixed network, in order to comply with the relevant regulation. Separating our business into two sectors may involve divesting either our fixed line or cellular services businesses to a subsidiary or a third party, which could materially change our operations and result in a reduction of our total operating revenue. In addition, if the relevant regulatory authorities determine that our foreign ownership still exceeds the Negative List restriction, the regulatory authorities may prohibit us from participating in bidding for or obtaining further licenses or additional spectrum. If this occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. A failure in the continuing operations of our network, certain key systems, gateways to our network or the networks of other network operators could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects We depend to a significant degree on the uninterrupted operation of our network to provide our services. For example, we depend on access to the PSTN for termination and origination of cellular telephone calls to and from fixed-line telephones, and a significant portion of our cellular and international long-distance call traffic is routed through the PSTN. The limited interconnection facilities of the PSTN available to us have adversely affected our business in the past and may adversely affect our business in the future. Because of interconnection capacity constraints, our cellular customers have at times experienced blocked calls. We cannot assure you that these interconnection facilities can be increased or maintained at current levels. We also depend on certain technologically sophisticated management information systems and other systems, such as our customer billing system, to enable us to conduct our operations. In addition, we rely to a certain extent on interconnection to the networks of other telecommunications operators to carry calls from our customers to the customers of fixed-line operators and other cellular operators, both within Indonesia and overseas. Our network, including our information systems, information technology and infrastructure and the networks of other operators with whom our subscribers interconnect, are vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operation from a variety of sources including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss, equipment failure, network software flaws, transmission cable disruption or similar events. For example, our telecommunications control and information technology back-up facilities are highly concentrated within our headquarters and principal operating and tape back-up storage facilities located at two sites in Jakarta. Any failure that results in an interruption of our operations or of the provision of any service, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, could damage our ability to attract and retain subscribers, cause significant subscriber dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As a dominant IDD telecommunications operator, our RIOs are subject to Government approval and may be adjusted to our disadvantage, thereby resulting in an adverse effect on us Pursuant to regulations issued in February 2006, the Government established a cost-based interconnection scheme with a formula-based guideline for telecommunications operators. Under this tariff scheme, IDD telecommunications operators, such as ourselves, controlling more than 25.0% of the market share are classified as “dominant operators,” and are required to submit a RIO to the Government for approval. The RIO must disclose the type of interconnection services offered by the telecommunications operator and set forth the tariffs charged for each offered service. The Government may assess and periodically review the RIOs proposed by dominant operators for approval. In contrast, telecommunications operators which are not designated as dominant operators may simply notify the Government regarding their tariffs and may implement such tariffs for its customers without Government approval. The new interconnection tariff scheme took effect on January 1, 2007. The disparity in the treatment of dominant and non-dominant telecommunications operators may create 13 Table of Contents opportunities for new entrants in the telecommunications industry, providing them with increased flexibility to establish lower tariffs and offer lower pricing terms to their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to react to rapid technological changes could adversely affect our business The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. We may face increasing competition from technologies currently under development or which may be developed in the future. Future development or application of new or alternative technologies, services or standards could require significant changes to our business model, the development of new products, the provision of additional services and substantial new investments by us. For example, the development of fixed-mobile convergence technology, which allows a call that originates on a cellular handset to bypass a cellular network and instead be carried over a fixed-line telephone network, could adversely affect our business. New products and services may be expensive to develop and may result in the introduction of additional competitors into the marketplace. We cannot accurately predict how emerging and future technological changes will affect our operations or the competitiveness of our services. We cannot assure you that our technologies will not become obsolete, or be subjected to competition from new technologies in the future, or that we will be able to acquire new technologies necessary to compete in changed circumstances on commercially acceptable terms. We may be unable to obtain adequate financing to remain competitive in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia The delivery of telecommunications services is capital intensive. In order to be competitive, we must continually expand, modernize and update our technology, which involves substantial capital investment. During 2007 and 2008, our consolidated capital expenditures totalled Rp9,726.4 billion and Rp12,341.9 billion, respectively. During 2009, we plan capital expenditures of approximately US$600.0 million towards the development of fixed assets in our cellular, fixed data and fixed telecommunications business lines. Our ability to fund capital expenditures in the future will depend on our future operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and upon our ability to obtain additional external financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we can only incur additional financing in compliance with the terms of our debt agreements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to improve or expand our cellular telecommunications infrastructure or update our other technology to the extent necessary to remain competitive in the Indonesian telecommunications market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Government is the majority shareholder of our major competitors Telkom and Telkomsel. The Government may give priority to Telkom’s or Telkomsel’s businesses over ours As of March 31, 2009, the Government had a 14.29% equity stake in us, including the Series A share, which has special voting rights and veto rights over certain strategic matters under our Articles of Association, including the decision to liquidate us and also permits the Government to nominate one Director and one Commissioner. As of December 31, 2008, the Government also had a 51.2% equity stake in Telkom, which is our foremost competitor in fixed IDD telecommunications services. As of the same date, Telkom owns a 65.0% interest in Telkomsel, one of our two main competitors in the provision of cellular services. The percentage of the Government’s ownership interest in Telkom is significantly greater than its ownership interest in us. We cannot assure you that significant Government policies and plans will support our business or that the Government will treat Telkom and us equally when implementing future decisions, or when exercising regulatory power over the Indonesian telecommunications industry. 14 Table of Contents Our controlling shareholders’ interests may differ from those of our other shareholders As of March 31, 2008, ICLM, a Mauritius company, and ICLS own approximately 65.0% of our issued and outstanding share capital. ICLM and ICLS are currently wholly owned and controlled by Qtel, which is majority-owned by the State of Qatar and its affiliated entities. ICLM and its controlling shareholder have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and may cause us to take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our or our other shareholders’ best interests, including matters relating to our management and policies. Although nominees of ICLM hold positions on our Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors, we cannot assure you that our controlling shareholder will elect or be able to influence our business in a way that benefits our other shareholders. We rely on key management personnel, and our business may be adversely affected by any inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate key employees We believe that our current management team contributes significant experience and expertise to the management of our business. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategies in the future will depend in large part on the efforts of our key personnel. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia and this shortage is likely to continue. As a result, competition for certain specialist personnel is intense. In addition, as new market entrants begin or expand operations in Indonesia, certain of our key employees may leave their current positions. Our inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are found liable for price fixing by the Indonesian Anti-Monopoly Committee, we may be subject to substantial liability which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and affect our business, reputation and profitability. On November 1, 2007, the KPPU issued a decision regarding a preliminary investigation of us and eight other telecommunication companies based on allegations of price-fixing of SMS and breach of Article 5 of the Anti-monopoly Law (Law No. 5 / 1999). On June 18, 2008, the KPPU determined that only Telkom, Telkomsel, Excelcomindo, Bakrie Telecom, Mobile-8 and Smart Telecom have jointly breached Article 5 of Law No. 5 / 1999. Telkomsel and Excelcomindo have subsequently appealed this ruling to the South Jakarta District Court and the South Jakarta District Court has summoned us to appear as a co-defendant in this appeal. In addition, a series of class action lawsuits were filed against us, Telkomsel and Excelcomindo during 2007 and 2008 in the District Court of Bekasi, the Central Jakarta District Court and the Tangerang District Court relating to Temasek Holding’s prior cross ownership of shares in Indosat and Telkomsel, which is alleged to have caused high price fixing of telecommunications services that harmed to the public. In the event that the KPPU’s decision stipulates that this price-fixing caused consumer loss, such decision may trigger further class action suits against us. Any of the above factors could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and profitability. Risks Relating to our Cellular Services Business We may be unable to execute our cellular network expansion in a timely manner, at all or as planned, and such delay or failure may adversely affect our cellular services business, results of operations and prospects We currently plan capital expenditures of approximately US$600.0 million in 2009 with approximately 75.0% of such amount to be allocated to expenditures related to our cellular network, including expansion of our coverage zones and for capacity expansion. We cannot assure you that our network expansion targets will be achieved due to the possibility of failures in our internal resources or from our outside vendors. 15 Table of Contents Failure to achieve our network expansion target may affect and limit our network capacity and quality, which may adversely impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, we may have more difficulty competing with our competitors in providing network coverage and services to our customers. Competition from industry incumbents and new market entrants may adversely affect our cellular services business Competition among cellular service providers in Indonesia is based on various factors, including pricing, network quality and coverage, the range of services and features offered and customer service. Our cellular services business competes primarily against Telkomsel and Excelcomindo. Several other cellular service providers also provide cellular services in Indonesia. In addition to current cellular service providers, the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology may license additional cellular service providers in the future, and such new entrants may compete with us. For instance, PT Hutchison Charoen Pokphand Telekomunikasi and PT Natrindo Telepon Seluler, launched their cellular services in the first quarter of 2007 and Smart Telekom launched its cellular services in mid-2007. In 2008, competition from industry incumbents and new market entrants in the cellular services market led to aggressive pricing campaigns by cellular service providers during the first quarter of 2008. These aggressive pricing campaigns resulted in a decrease in ARPU from a range of US$0.08 to US$0.10 to only US$0.02 per minute across the industry. The decrease in prices for cellular usage also led to an increase in the number of subscribers and in network traffic, resulting in increased network congestion among operators, which will require us to incur additional capital expenditures to continue to expand our network. Moreover, we, together with our current competitors, may also be subject to competition from providers of new telecommunications services using new technology and the convergence of various telecommunications services. New and existing cellular service providers may also significantly increase subscriber acquisition costs by offering more attractive product and service packages, resulting in higher churn rates, lower ARPU or a reduction of, or slower growth in, our cellular subscriber base. In addition, although the Government has allocated all available GSM 900 and 1800 spectrum, we cannot assure you that additional spectrum will not become available in the future or that the Government will not reallocate existing spectrum from existing cellular service providers, including us. If we fail to utilize our spectrum capacity efficiently, or if we cannot finance the incremental capital expenditures necessary to utilize our spectrum capacity successfully as and when needed, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining cellular subscribers, which could have a material adverse effect on our cellular services business. To the extent our current or future competitors in GSM cellular services obtain additional spectrum capacity, our competitive position, cellular services business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In early 2006, the Government announced the tender to all telecommunications operators of three blocks of 5 MHz 3G spectrum. We were awarded one 3G spectrum license for 5 MHz of paired spectrum for an up-front fee of Rp320.0 billion. Under the license, we were required to initiate 3G service in at least two areas, Jakarta and Surabaya (East Java) and their surrounding areas, and to provide coverage for 10.0% of the population in each of these regions by 2006, 20.0% by 2007, and 30.0% by 2009. The license also required us to initiate 3G service in additional areas on an incremental basis within the next five years. Our primary competitors, Telkomsel and Excelcomindo, were also awarded 3G licenses. As a result, there are currently five telecommunications operators in Indonesia for 3G services and new licenses may be awarded to allocate remaining 3G spectrum. Under the terms of our license, we were required to complete our 3G network expansion to provide network coverage to 20.0% of the population of Jakarta and Surabaya and 10.0% of the population in West Java, Yogjakarta and North Sumatra by the end of 2007. Based on our internal estimates, as of March 31, 2009, we have established 100% population coverage in Jakarta but have not met the population coverage requirements for other regions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue our 3G network expansion as planned or successfully complete the population coverage levels mandated by the Government. Moreover, as the Government has not issued guidance on how to calculate percentages of population coverage, it is difficult to 16 Table of Contents determine whether or not we have fulfilled these requirements under our license. Failure to complete our 3G network expansion by the year 2010 could result in an increase in our performance bond for the license or a fine by the Government for non-compliance with the license terms and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face competition from our competitors’ fixed wireless access services, which may have a material adverse effect on our cellular and fixed telecommunications services businesses In December 2002, Telkom introduced TelkomFlexi in Surabaya (East Java), Denpasar (Bali) and Balikpapan (East Kalimantan) using CDMA2000 1x fixed wireless technology. In May 2003, Telkom expanded TelkomFlexi to include the Jakarta area, and Bakrie Telecom, has launched a similar service for Jakarta, Banten and West Java since 2004. Telkom has since expanded TelkomFlexi into more than 250 cities nationwide. Telkom applies PSTN telephone tariffs for its fixed wireless access service, which tariffs are lower than those applied to cellular services, and pays lower regulatory fees than those applied to cellular services. Fixed wireless access services using CDMA2000 1x technology possess mobility and features similar to those offered by cellular providers within one area code. Fixed wireless access service quality may exceed GSM cellular service quality due to more efficient spectrum usage. We cannot assure you that the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology will not take affirmative steps to encourage the network build-out of fixed wireless access networks. The introduction and availability of fixed wireless access services and other similar technologies has increased competition based on price and product and service packages among cellular service providers. Fixed wireless access services, particularly those offered without significant regulatory restrictions regarding mobility and a system to equalize regulatory fees and tariffs, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, resulting in, among other things, higher churn rates, lower ARPUs, slower growth in total cellular subscribers and increased subscriber acquisition costs. Since we introduced our StarOne fixed wireless access service in May 2004, we have expanded the service to 52 cities and plan to expand such services to certain other cities. However, competition from Telkom, Bakrie Telecom, and other existing fixed wireless access service providers that compete directly with us may cause prices to decline for such services and inhibit our ability to increase our total number of fixed wireless access subscribers and to expand our fixed wireless access services business. New nationwide fixed wireless access services licenses granted to Bakrie Telecom and Mobile-8 have also resulted in more aggressive promotion of fixed wireless access services in their existing and new areas of coverage. Moreover, during 2008, the cellular and fixed wireless access industry entered into aggressive campaigns on pricing and the price differential between cellular and fixed wireless access services began narrowing, impacting the competitiveness and growth of our fixed wireless access industry. Industry analysts have also begun raising concerns of consolidation among current fixed wireless access operators to maintain competitiveness. If such consolidation occurs or if competitors such as Telkomsel and Exelcomindo are granted fixed wireless access services licenses by the Government, competition may continue to intensify and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Cellular network congestion and limited spectrum availability could limit our cellular subscriber growth and cause reductions in our cellular service quality The rapid growth of our cellular subscriber base, together with increasing demand, has led to high cellular usage, particularly in dense urban areas. The available spectrum for use by a cellular network effectively limits its capacity. As a result, radio frequency engineering techniques, including a combination of macro, micro and indoor cellular designs, are needed to increase “erlang per square kilometer” and to maintain cellular network quality despite radio frequency interference and tighter radio frequency re-use patterns. Such radio frequency techniques have been deployed in dense urban environments such as Hong Kong, and are used when the erlang per square kilometer threshold approaches such a usage profile. However, if our cellular subscriber base should grow significantly larger in high-density areas, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to maintain and improve service quality, and we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve cellular service quality based on our current spectrum allocation. 17 Table of Contents Our growth plans anticipate substantial expansion of our cellular network and a corresponding increase in our total number of cellular subscribers. Specifically, in 2007, we began deploying our 5 MHz 3G/HSDPA spectrum. The high demand for wireless broadband access and the increased availability of 3G compatible devices has increased network congestion and may result in degradation of service quality. Due to capacity limitation in our allocated 3G/HSDPA spectrum, we will need a new block of 5 MHz/HSDPA spectrum to service current demand and maintain our desired service levels. We cannot assure you that we can acquire such spectrum on a timely basis or at a reasonable price. If we fail to acquire such spectrum or are unable to finance the capital expenditures to maintain and improve our 3G/HSDPA network quality, it may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We also cannot assure you that any such expansion plans will materialize or, if they do materialize, that we will be able to integrate additional cellular subscribers successfully. Failure to activate new cellular subscribers on a timely basis and to scale existing operational units to handle increased cellular traffic may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our CDMA frequency migration from 1900 MHz to 800 MHz in the Greater Jakarta areas and optimization of 800 MHz in other areas may cause a decline in cellular service quality and possible network interference On December 12, 2006, the Government granted us a license to provide two channels of nationwide fixed wireless access service in the 800 MHz frequency. This license replaced our previous 1900 MHz fixed wireless access license. The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology’s Ministerial Decree No. 181 / 2006 on 800 MHz frequency channel allocation for local fixed wireless access services required us to migrate from the 1900 MHz frequency to the new 800 MHz frequency by the end of 2007 in the Greater Jakarta area. Because we had to upgrade our existing radio equipment from 1900 MHz to 800 MHz equipment to complete the frequency migration, we may have experienced inconsistent cellular service quality in our GSM cellular network and possible cellular network interference, and such service issues may be difficult to resolve because the new 800 MHz frequency is located near our GSM frequency allocation on the spectrum of available frequencies. We completed the migration process for CDMA at the end of 2007 and for GSM by March 2008. However, we need to continue to install additional filters to limit the interference between our GSM and CDMA networks. Without such filters, our GSM network performance may be severely degraded due to interference from our CDMA network. We cannot assure you that there will not be inconsistent network coverage and cellular network interference following the migration of our fixed wireless access services. Failure to successfully migrate such services in a timely fashion or at all and decreased fixed wireless access or cellular service quality and possible cellular network interference resulting from the migration may affect our ability to expand our StarOne services to additional cities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend on our telecommunication tower infrastructure and potential mandated sharing of telecommunication towers with other telecommunications operators may adversely affect our network capacity and call quality We are highly dependent on our telecommunication tower infrastructure to provide GSM, FWA and 3G network and mobile cellular telecommunications services as we typically install transmitter and transceiver antennas and other BTS supporting facilities in our towers. The availability and installation of such telecommunication towers require licenses from the relevant central and regional authorities. Recently, a number of regional authorities have implemented regulations which limit the number and location of telecommunication towers and established requirements for operators to share in the utilization of telecommunication towers. In addition, on March 17, 2008, the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology enacted Regulation No. 02 / PER / M.KOMINFO / 3 / 2008 on the Guidelines of Construction and Utilization of Sharing Telecommunication Towers, or the Tower Decree. Based on this regulation, the construction of telecommunication towers requires permits from the relevant governmental institution and the local government determines the placement and location in which telecommunication towers can be constructed. A joint regulation promulgated by the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Public Works, the Minister of Communications 18 Table of Contents and Information and the Head of the Indonesia Investment Coordinating Board on March 30, 2009 also requires that every tower built and used for telecommunications services must obtain a building permit to demonstrate compliance with certain technical specifications. If a tower owner fails to obtain such a permit, the appropriate regional authorities will be entitled to assess penalties on the tower owner. Furthermore, a telecommunications provider or tower provider which owns telecommunication towers is obligated to allow other telecommunication operators to utilize its telecommunication towers, without any discrimination. This new regulation requires all telecommunications providers or tower providers which had constructed telecommunication towers prior to its enactment to comply with the provisions of the regulation by no later than two years from the enactment date. Such regulatory requirements may require us to adjust our telecommunication tower construction plans, relocate our existing telecommunication towers, allow other operators access to our telecommunication towers and perform other measures which may result in the increase of telecommunication tower construction costs, delays in the construction process and potential service disruption and reduced call quality for our customers. If we cannot fulfill the regulatory requirements for telecommunication towers or meet our own network capacity needs for telecommunication towers, we may face difficulties in developing and providing cellular GSM, FWA and 3G telecommunications services. Our dependency on telecommunication tower infrastructure, combined with the risk and burden of sharing of telecommunication towers, may also adversely affect our competitive advantage relative to other operators. New telecommunication providers, for instance, may be able to access more networks without expending capital to construct telecommunication towers, thereby resulting in more competition for us and lower revenue. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our network capacity, the performance and quality of our networks and services and our reputation. The Tower Decree also mandated that the tower contractor, provider and owner each have to be 100% locally owned companies. We have in the past awarded contracts for construction of towers and renting of towers to foreign-owned companies. If we cannot fulfill the regulatory requirements for contracting with locally owned tower contractors, providers and owners, we may have to negotiate new contracts and incur additional costs. Despite spending significant financial resources to increase our cellular subscriber base, the number of our cellular subscribers may increase without a corresponding increase in our operating revenues As we spend significant financial resources to develop and expand our cellular network, we believe we will continue to add cellular subscribers. However, the uncertain economic situation in Indonesia and increasing prices of primary goods may decrease our cellular subscribers’ purchasing power. Moreover, a continued decline in effective tariffs for voice usage resulting from “free-talk” campaigns and recent tariff discount promotions, increasing SMS usage and greater cellular penetration in the lower-income segment of the market has led to a decrease in ARPU and caused our total number of cellular subscribers to increase without a corresponding increase in our operating revenues. Our number of cellular subscribers increased from approximately 16.7 million as of December 31, 2006 to approximately 24.5 million as of December 31, 2007 and to approximately 36.5 million as of December 31, 2008. During the same period, however, our Blended ARPU, which combines our prepaid and postpaid ARPU, decreased from approximately Rp60,023 as of December 31, 2006 to approximately Rp52,821 as of December 31, 2007 to approximately Rp38,639 as of December 31, 2008. While we intend to continue to spend significant financial resources to further increase our number of subscribers and expand our cellular subscriber base, we cannot assure you that such expenditures will be accompanied by a corresponding increase in our ARPU or operating revenues. Accordingly, our subscriber acquisition costs and the capital expenditures required to expand our network capacity could increase without a corresponding increase in our revenue or profitability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain and expand our cellular network or conduct our business may be affected by disruption of supplies and services from our principal suppliers We rely upon a few principal vendors to supply a substantial portion of the equipment required to maintain and expand our cellular network, including our microwave backbone, and upon other vendors in relation to other 19 Table of Contents supplies necessary to conduct our business. We depend on equipment and other supplies and services from such vendors to maintain and replace key components of our cellular network and to operate our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies or services in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or if there are significant increases in the cost of such supplies or services, our ability to maintain and to expand our cellular network and our results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We depend on our licenses to provide cellular services, and our licenses could be cancelled if we fail to comply with their terms and conditions We rely on licenses issued by the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology for the provision of our cellular services as well as for the utilization of our allocated spectrum frequencies. The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology, with due regard to prevailing laws and regulations, may amend the terms of our licenses at its discretion. Any breach of the terms and conditions of our licenses or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in our licenses being cancelled. Any revocation or unfavorable amendment of the terms of our licenses, or any failure to renew them on comparable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A significant increase in frequency fees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently required to pay frequency fees based on the number of transmitter and receiver units (or transceivers) in a BTS in our GSM telecommunication network. Frequency fees for our GSM telecommunication network are payable periodically in advance based on invoices received from the Government. Frequency fees for our 3G telecommunication network are payable annually in advance in a lump sum amount based on a formula prescribed by the Government. As we increase the number of our BTSs in order to accommodate increases in our number of subscribers, the frequency fee for our GSM telecommunication network also increases, thereby increasing our operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by BTSs and cellular handsets, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could adversely affect our operations. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from BTSs and from the use of cellular handsets. We cannot assure you that future studies of these health risks will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects which may subject us to legal action from individuals alleging personal injuries or otherwise adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Fixed Data (“MIDI”) Services Business Competition with our MIDI services is increasing, and we may experience declining margins from such services as competition intensifies Our MIDI services are facing increased competition from new and established operators, which may have wider customer bases and greater financial resources than us, such as Telkom, with its broad international reach and developed domestic infrastructure. In addition, operators such as Excelcomindo, First Media and Icon+, some of which have alliances with foreign telecommunications operators, compete with us in this business segment. More recently, our World Link leased line services faced increased competition this year following the launch of an international “Matrix” cable operated by PT NAP Info Lintas Nusa. Our satellite business also faces increasing competition as new and more powerful satellites are launched and as companies acquire exclusive licenses to provide broadcast services in Indonesia. We lease transponder space on our Palapa-C2 satellite for periods of two to five years, and we estimate the remaining useful life of 20 Table of Contents such satellite to be approximately two years. As additional satellites become operational and our transponder leases expire or are terminated and price competition intensifies, our transponder lessees may utilize other satellites, thereby adversely affecting our operating margins and operating revenues from such services. Our satellite has a limited operational life and may be damaged or completely destroyed during operation. The loss or reduced performance of our satellite, whether caused by equipment failure or its license being revoked, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to provide certain services Our Palapa-C2 satellite has a limited operational life, which is presently estimated to end in January 2011. A number of factors affect the operational lives of satellites, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, on-board fuel reserves, the launch vehicle used and the manner in which the satellite is monitored and operated. We currently use satellite transponder capacity on our satellite in connection with many aspects of our business, including direct leasing of such capacity and routing for our international long-distance and cellular services. Our satellite could fail prior to January 2011, and we believe in-orbit repairs would not be feasible. Moreover, International Telecommunications Union regulations specify that a designated satellite slot has been allocated for Indonesia, and the Government has the right to determine which party is licensed to use such slot. While we currently hold a license to use the designated satellite slot, in the event our Palapa-C2 satellite experiences technical problems or failure, the Government may determine that we have failed to optimize the existing slot under our license, which may result in the Government withdrawing our license and granting it to one of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain use of the designated satellite slot in an manner deemed satisfactory by the Government. We maintain in-orbit insurance in the event of the total loss of the Palapa-C2 satellite prior to 2011, providing for a single payment of US$14.0 million in the event that the satellite is lost or destroyed. Palapa-C2’s satellite control processor has been identified as prone to failure, and our satellite insurance excludes coverage of satellite malfunction caused by failure of the satellite control processor. If damage or failure renders our satellite unfit for use, we may elect to cease our satellite operations or lease transponder capacity from a third-party provider rather than acquiring a new satellite. The termination of our satellite business could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and increase operating expenses associated with our provision of other telecommunications services. Our failure to launch our new Palapa-D satellite may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to provide certain services On June 29, 2007, we signed a contract to purchase Palapa-D, a new satellite which will replace our Palapa-C2 satellite. We plan to launch our Palapa-D Satellite in September 2009. Based on our purchase contract and as part of our risk management procedures, we will purchase satellite components which have long lead times. Because we purchase components with long lead times, the satellite manufacturer has agreed to provide us with a substitute satellite which can be launched within 18 months should there be a failure in launching our Palapa-D satellite, as compared to the typical preparation period of 26 months. While we prepare for the launch of our Palapa-D satellite, we will attempt to extend the operational life of our Palapa-C2 satellite until the first quarter of 2011 by using an “inclined orbit” technique. Delay in launching or operating the Palapa-D satellite as a result of failures in the construction process, delivery to the launching location, the launching process of in-orbit delivery (IOD) of the satellite, or other factors, may adversely affect our ability to provide satellite services, particularly if such delay extends past the operational life of our Palapa-C2 satellite. If such delays occur or extend past the operational life of our Palapa-C2 Satellite, we may experience increased operating expenses associated with our provision of telecommunications services and losses or damage to the new Palapa-D satellite during the construction process, delivery and launching, which may not be covered by insurance. 21 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Fixed Telecommunications Services Business The entry of additional Indonesian telecommunications operators, as providers of international long-distance services could adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins, market share and results of operations Telkom, a well-established Indonesian telecommunications incumbent with significant political and financial resources, obtained a license to provide international long-distance services on May 13, 2004 and launched its commercial service on June 7, 2004. As a result of Telkom’s entry into the international long-distance market, we lost market share and experienced other adverse effects relating to our fixed telecommunications services business. By the end of 2006, Telkom had acquired significant market share for IDD services. In addition, the Government has issued Bakrie Telekom a new international long-distance license in an effort to encourage greater competition in the international long-distance services market. The entrance of established incumbents and new operators into the international long-distance market continues to pose a significant competitive threat to us. We cannot assure you that such adverse effects will not continue or that such increased competition will not continue to erode our market share or adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins and results of operations. We face risks related to the opening of new long distance access codes In an attempt to liberalize DLD services and local telecommunications access, the Government has issued regulations requiring each provider of DLD services to implement a three-digit access code to be dialed by customers making DLD calls. On April 1, 2005, the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology announced that three-digit access codes for DLD calls will be implemented gradually within five years of such date and that it would assign us the “016” DLD access code for five major cities, including Jakarta, and allow us to progressively extend it to all other area codes within five years. Telkom was assigned “017” as its DLD access code. On December 3, 2007, the Government enacted Ministerial Decree No. 43 / 2007, which extended the date of implementation of the DLD access code to April 3, 2008. The Ministerial Decree also sets forth a schedule on implementing “01X” long distance access. In January 2007, the Government implemented new interconnection regulations and a new five-digit access code system for VoIP services. In April 2008, these access codes were implemented in Balikpapan. Following the implementation, Balikpapan residents will be able to choose from options “0”, “01016” or “01017” in connecting their long distance calls. In April 2008, we and Telkom agreed to open DLD access from our respective customers in Balikpapan. Pursuant to this agreement, Telkom’s fixed line customers can dial “01016” to access our DLD network while our FWA customers can dial “01017” to access Telkom’s network. Whether the DLD access code will be implemented in other cities will be based on a study by the Indonesian Telecommunication Regulatory Board on Indosat and Telkom’s fixed phone service customers and on several criteria such as (i) Telkom must open the DLD access code of “0101X” in certain area codes within a certain timeframe if Indosat, as a second DLD operator, has FWA, with limited mobility customers which equal or exceed 30.0% of Telkom’s FWA services with limited mobility customers or (ii) Telkom must open the DLD access code of “0101X” in certain area codes within a certain timeframe if Indosat, as a second DLD operator, has Fixed Terminal customers which equal or exceed 15.0% of Telkom’s wireline and FWA services with limited mobility customers. The implementation of the new DLD access codes has increased competition by offering our customers more options for DLD services, including those from Telkom. In addition, the opening of new DLD access codes is expected to result in increased competition and less cooperation with industry incumbents, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenue, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that the access code in Balikpapan will remain intact or be successful in improving our revenues from long distance. We also cannot assure you that similar access codes will be implemented in other cities. 22 Table of Contents VoIP usage is increasing, and certain customers use VoIP services rather than traditional international long-distance services, which may continue to have a material adverse impact on our fixed telecommunications services business Worldwide and Indonesian trends indicate increased usage of VoIP services and a corresponding decrease in the usage of traditional international long-distance services. The cost structure for providers of VoIP services is lower than that for traditional fixed-line operators and, as such, VoIP services are customarily offered at significant cost savings compared to international long-distance services. Availability of VoIP services, despite their lower quality as compared to international long-distance services, may continue to adversely impact our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services due to lower traffic volumes and reduced pricing plans for our traditional international long-distance services. A decrease in applicable accounting rates may adversely affect our operating revenues derived from interconnection fees charged to foreign telecommunications operators Telecommunications providers make interconnection settlements based on established accounting rates contained in agreements between such providers. These agreements are subject to periodic renegotiation and, in recent years, certain foreign telecommunications operators have negotiated reductions in accounting rates. As a result, international accounting rates have decreased in recent years, and we expect that they will continue to decrease. Any reduction in accounting rates with foreign telecommunications operators may result in reduced interconnection revenues derived from international incoming calls. Interconnection revenues from foreign telecommunications operators may be unreliable, and we may not receive all monies due in connection with the provision of our fixed telecommunications services A significant portion of our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services consists of amounts received from foreign telecommunications operators for handling incoming calls to Indonesia. Such operators may not pay these interconnection amounts to us promptly as such amounts become due and payable. Further, adverse economic conditions experienced by such foreign telecommunications operators in their home countries may adversely affect such operators’ ability to pay such interconnection amounts to us in a timely manner or at all. The unstable economic and political situation in Indonesia may adversely affect the level of international business activity in Indonesia, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues from international long-distance services Our international long-distance services are impacted by the levels of international business activity and tourism in Indonesia, the number of Indonesian overseas workers international accounting rates, tariffs for international long-distance, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Indonesian rupiah against the U.S. dollar and compensation to telecommunications carriers and service providers. The continued unstable economic and political situation in Indonesia, including events preceding the presidential elections scheduled in July 2009, may adversely affect foreign investment and international business activity in Indonesia, which may result in lower customer demand for our international long-distance services. Moreover, global economic situations which affect international business activity, such as the current global financial crisis, have had an adverse impact on demand for and usage of our international long-distance services, resulting in a decrease in both incoming and outgoing traffic. We may be unable to retain both of our international access codes, and the loss of either access code may adversely impact our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services and our marketing strategy for our fixed telecommunications services In August 2003, we received confirmation from the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology that we could continue to provide international long-distance services pursuant to the operating 23 Table of Contents license of our legacy subsidiary, Satelindo, using its “008” international access code in conjunction with our “001” international access code. We have attempted to market these international access codes as distinct brands targeted to different corporate and consumer segments. We cannot assure you that the Government will allow us to continue using both international access codes. If the Government restricts our ability to use both international access codes, our marketing strategy for international long-distance services, and operating revenues related to such services, would be adversely affected. 