RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Indonesia We are incorporated in Indonesia and substantially all of our operations, assets and customers are located in Indonesia. As a result, future political, economic, legal and social conditions in Indonesia, as well as certain actions and policies which the Government may, or may not, take or adopt may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Domestic, regional or global economic changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects The economic crisis which affected Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, from mid-1997 was characterized in Indonesia by, among other effects, currency depreciation, negative economic growth, high interest rates, social unrest and extraordinary political developments. These conditions had a material adverse effect on Indonesian businesses, including our business. Our performance and the quality and growth of our customer base and service offerings necessarily depend on the health of the overall Indonesian economy. Indonesia’s gross domestic product, or GDP, grew at an annual rate of approximately 4.4% in 2002, 4.7% in 2003, 5.0% in 2004, 5.7% in 2005 and 5.5% in 2006. Despite recent GDP growth, the Government continues to have a large fiscal deficit and a high level of sovereign debt, and its foreign currency reserves are modest. In addition, the Indonesian rupiah continues to be volatile and has poor liquidity, and although the Indonesian banking sector continues to improve, it faces challenges due to historically high levels of non-performing loans. The Indonesian Central Bank (Bank Indonesia) has stated that during 2006 the Indonesian economy was marked by overall macroeconomic stability, as reflected by an annual inflation rate of 6.6% and an appreciating exchange rate and economic growth. Nevertheless, the Board of Governors’ meeting also identified various structural deficiencies in the Indonesian economy, including a weak investment climate, inadequate infrastructure and bureaucratic difficulties resulting in slow investment growth, low productivity and low production efficiency. The interest rate for one-month Bank Indonesia certificates, or SBI, was at a peak of 70.8% in July 1998, and had decreased to 9.75% by the end of 2006 and 9.25% by early 2007. In recent years, several natural disasters have occurred in Indonesia (in addition to the Asian tsunami in 2004), including the tsunami in Pangandaran, the earthquake in Jogya and the hot mud eruption and subsequent flooding in east Java. More recently, in February 2007, Jakarta experienced significant flooding. Government funding requirements to areas affected by the Asian tsunami in late December 2004 and such other natural disasters, as well as increasing oil prices, may cause inflation as well as the Government’s fiscal deficit to increase. Any such increased volatility or slowdown or negative growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Political and social instability may adversely affect us Since the collapse of President Soeharto’s regime in 1998, Indonesia has experienced a process of democratic change, resulting in political and social events that have highlighted the unpredictable nature of Indonesia’s changing political landscape. These events have resulted in political instability as well as general social and civil unrest on certain occasions in the past few years. For example, since 2000, thousands of Indonesians have participated in demonstrations in Jakarta and other Indonesian cities both for and against former President Wahid and former President Megawati, as well as in response to specific issues, including fuel tariff increases, privatization of state assets, anti-corruption measures, decentralization and provincial autonomy and the American-led military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. Although these demonstrations have been generally peaceful, some have turned violent. In June 2001, 6 Table of Contents demonstrations and strikes affected at least 19 cities after the Government mandated a 30.0% increase in fuel prices. Similar demonstrations occurred in January 2003, when the Government again tried to increase fuel prices, as well as electricity rates and telephone charges. In both instances, the Government was forced to drop or substantially reduce the proposed increases. Regional political instability remains problematic. In April 2006, hundreds of people were involved in a violent protest directed at Freeport’s gold mining operations in the province of Papua. During the protest, three policemen were killed and many security and civilian personnel were injured. In addition, separatist leaders of Papua renewed calls for the province to separate from Indonesia. Recently, political instability in Poso, a district in the province of Central Sulawesi, has intensified. Political and social unrest may occur due to political and social instability in Poso and other regions. Political and related social developments in Indonesia have been unpredictable in the past, and we cannot assure you that social and civil disturbances will not occur in the future and on a wider scale, or that any such disturbances will not, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist activities in Indonesia could destabilize the country, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects Since 2002, several bombing incidents have taken place in Indonesia, most significantly in October 2002 in Bali, a region of Indonesia previously considered safe from the unrest affecting other parts of the country. Other bombing incidents, although on a lesser scale, have also been committed in Indonesia on a number of occasions over the past few years, including at shopping centers and places of worship. In April 2003, a bomb exploded outside the main United Nations building in Jakarta, and in May 2003, a bomb exploded in front of the domestic terminal at Jakarta International Airport. In August 2003, a bomb exploded at the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, and in September 2004, a bomb exploded in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. More recently, bomb blasts in Central Sulawesi killed at least 21 people and injured at least 60 people. Most recently, on October 1, 2005, bomb blasts in Bali killed at least 23 people and injured at least 101 others. Indonesian, Australian and U.S. government officials have indicated that these bombings may be linked to an international terrorist organization. Demonstrations have taken place in Indonesia in response to plans for and subsequent to U.S., British and Australian military action in Iraq. The Indonesian authorities are still investigating these incidents. Further terrorist acts may occur in the future. Terrorist acts may, for example, be directed at foreigners in Indonesia. Violent acts arising from, and leading to, instability and unrest have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on investment and confidence in, and the performance of, the Indonesian economy, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Indonesia relies heavily on funding from multinational lenders, and the inability to obtain such funding would have adverse consequences for Indonesia and us In 1997, the Government sought financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund, or the IMF, to confront the economic crisis in Indonesia and, in October 1997, the IMF agreed to provide financial assistance to Indonesia contingent upon the implementation of numerous economic reforms. The IMF disbursed funds to the Government from late 1997, although disbursements were from time to time delayed. When the IMF withheld disbursement of funds, it did so on the basis that the Government had not adequately complied with the terms of its then-current letter of intent, which imposed various conditions to funding such as completion of certain asset sales and implementation of various reforms. On October 12, 2006, the Government accelerated the repayment of its debt to the IMF in the amount of US$7.6 billion. In addition to the IMF, the World Bank has been an important source of funding for Indonesia. The World Bank has expressed concern that the slow pace of institutional reforms in Indonesia, as well as the Government’s decentralization plan and particularly the empowerment of provincial governments to borrow, could lead to the central Government’s inability to service its debts. The World Bank’s lending program is subject to regular 7 Table of Contents compliance reviews and can be reduced or withdrawn at anytime. As of December 31, 2006, the Government owed approximately US$7.9 billion to the World Bank. The members of the Paris Club, and the former Consultative Group in Indonesia, or CGI, have also been important sources of funding for the Government. The Paris Club is an informal voluntary group of creditor countries that seeks to coordinate solutions for payment difficulties experienced by debtor nations. The CGI was a group of donor countries and international organizations which met annually to coordinate donor assistance to Indonesia. The Government has several times successfully rescheduled its foreign debt. However, from 2004, the Paris Club has publicly stated that it will no longer reschedule debt owed to its members or to other creditors by the Government as a result of the Government’s decision to end the IMF program. In January 2007, the Government decided to end its participation with the CGI and has announced its intention to conduct direct discussions with creditors regarding the Government’s external debt. As of December 31, 2006, the Government’s outstanding external debt was US$66.0 billion. Given the Government’s significant fiscal deficit and modest foreign exchange reserves, the inability of the Government to obtain adequate funding as a result of the termination of the Government’s IMF program, a reduction or elimination of funding from the World Bank, or other institutions or countries, could have adverse economic, political and social consequences in Indonesia, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that the Government will be able to obtain alternative funding to replace the funding previously provided by the IMF or to supplement a reduction or elimination of funding from other sources. Labor activism and unrest may adversely affect our business In March 2003, the Government enacted a manpower law and implementing regulations allowing employees to unionize. The liberalization of regulations permitting the formation of labor unions combined with weak economic conditions has resulted, and will likely continue to result in, labor unrest and activism in Indonesia. Recently, the Government proposed to amend the manpower law in a manner which, in the view of labor activists, would result in reduced pension benefits, the increased use of outsourced employees and prohibitions on unions to conduct strikes. Though the proposal has been suspended, a new Government regulation addressing lay-offs of workers will soon become effective. Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect the financial condition of Indonesian companies in general and the value of the Indonesian rupiah relative to other currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Depreciation in the value of the Indonesian rupiah may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects One of the most important immediate causes of the economic crisis which began in Indonesia in mid-1997 was the depreciation and volatility of the value of the Indonesian rupiah, as measured against other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Although the Indonesian rupiah has appreciated considerably from its low point of approximately Rp17,000 per U.S. dollar in 1998 to less than Rp10,000 per U.S. dollar in 2006, it may experience volatility again in the future. The Indonesian rupiah has generally been freely convertible and transferable (except that Indonesian banks may not transfer Indonesian rupiah to persons outside of Indonesia who lack a bona fide trade or investment purpose). However, from time to time, Bank Indonesia has intervened in the currency exchange markets in furtherance of its policies, either by selling Indonesian rupiah or by using its foreign currency reserves to purchase Indonesian rupiah. We cannot assure you that the current floating exchange rate policy of Bank Indonesia will not be modified, that further depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah against other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, will not occur, or that the Government will take additional action to stabilize, maintain or increase the value of the Indonesian rupiah, or that any of these actions, if taken, will be successful. 8 Table of Contents Modification of the current floating exchange rate policy could result in significantly higher domestic interest rates, liquidity shortages, capital or exchange controls or the withholding of additional financial assistance by multinational lenders. This could result in a reduction of economic activity, an economic recession, loan defaults or declining usage by our subscribers, and as a result, we may also face difficulties in funding our capital expenditures and in implementing our business strategy. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to manage successfully our foreign currency exchange risk Changes in exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our debt obligations and a majority of our capital expenditures are, and we expect will continue to be, denominated in U.S. dollars. Most of our revenues are denominated in Indonesian rupiah. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness in currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah, including the U.S. dollar, to finance further capital expenditures. We currently hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure principally because our annual U.S. dollar-denominated operating revenues are less than the sum of our U.S. dollar-denominated operating expenses and annual payments of U.S. dollar-denominated principal and interest payments. In an effort to manage our foreign currency exposure and lower our overall funding costs, we entered into several foreign currency swap contracts with three separate international financial institutions in 2005. In addition, we entered into five foreign currency swap contracts and two interest rate swap contracts with four international financial institutions in 2006. For these contracts, we pay either a LIBOR-linked floating rate or a fixed rate premium. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we reduced our foreign currency risk exposure, but increased our exposure to LIBOR-based interest rate risk. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our exchange rate risk successfully in the future or that we will not be adversely affected by our exposure to exchange rate risk. Downgrades of credit ratings of the Government or Indonesian companies could adversely affect our business Beginning in 1997, certain recognized statistical rating organizations, including Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Moody’s, and Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, or Standard & Poor’s, downgraded Indonesia’s sovereign rating and the credit ratings of various credit instruments of the Government and a large number of Indonesian banks and other companies. Indonesia’s sovereign foreign currency long-term debt is currently rated “B1 outlook” by Moody’s and “BB-” by Standard & Poor’s. These ratings reflect an assessment of the Government’s overall financial capacity to pay its obligations and its ability or willingness to meet its financial commitments as they become due. We cannot assure you that Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s or any other statistical rating organization will not downgrade the credit ratings of Indonesia or Indonesian companies, including us. Any such downgrade could have an adverse impact on liquidity in the Indonesian financial markets, the ability of the Government and Indonesian companies, including us, to raise additional financing and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. Interest rates on our floating rate Indonesian rupiah-denominated debt would also likely increase. Indonesian accounting standards differ from those in the United States We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with Indonesian GAAP, which differs from U.S. GAAP. As a result, our consolidated financial statements and reported earnings could be significantly different from those that would be reported under U.S. GAAP. We have prepared a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP of our consolidated net income for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and our consolidated stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2005 and 2006, which reconciliation appears in Note 44 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. 9 Table of Contents We are incorporated in Indonesia, and it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process, including certain judgments, on us within the United States We are a limited liability company incorporated in Indonesia, operating within the framework of Indonesian laws relating to foreign capital invested companies, and all of our significant assets are located in Indonesia. In addition, several of our Commissioners and substantially all of our Directors reside in Indonesia and a substantial portion of the assets of such persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process, including judgments, on us or such persons within the United States, or to enforce against us or such persons in the United States, judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the United States, or upon other bases. We have been advised by our Indonesian legal advisor that judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, are not enforceable in Indonesian courts, although such judgments could be admissible as non-conclusive evidence in a proceeding on the underlying claim in an Indonesian court. There is doubt as to whether Indonesian courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Indonesian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. As a result, the claimant would be required to pursue claims against us or such persons in Indonesian courts. Risks Relating to Us We operate in a legal and regulatory environment that is undergoing significant reforms. These reforms may result in increased competition, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenues, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us The regulatory reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector, which was initiated by the Government in 1999, has to a certain extent resulted in the liberalization of the telecommunications industry, including facilitation of new market entrants and changes to the competitive structure of the telecommunications industry. However, in recent years, the volume and complexity of regulatory changes has created an environment of considerable regulatory uncertainty. In addition, as the reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector continues, other competitors, potentially with greater resources than us, may enter the Indonesian telecommunications sector and compete with us in providing telecommunications services. In January 2007, the Government implemented new interconnection regulations and a new five-digit access code system for VoIP services. In the future, the Government may announce or implement other regulatory changes that may adversely affect our business and our existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with other domestic and foreign telecommunications operators or that regulatory changes, amendments or interpretations of current or future laws and regulations promulgated by the Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As a dominant telecommunications operator, our tariffs for network and cellular services are subject to Government approval and may be adjusted to our disadvantage, thereby resulting in an adverse effect on us The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (formerly the Ministry of Communications) is the principal regulator of the telecommunications industry in Indonesia and, historically, has been responsible for the setting and adjustment of tariff levels. Regulated tariffs have included activation fees, monthly fees, airtime usage fees for postpaid cellular services, domestic and international long-distance telephony rates and interconnection fees. Pursuant to regulations issued in February 2007, the Government established a formula-based guideline for telecommunications operators that set a floor for tariffs on retail cellular services and a ceiling for tariffs on interconnection and fixed services, but certain interpretative rules regarding the tariff formulation have not been clarified, and we understand the Government plans to amend such tariff formulas. On January 1, 2007, the Government implemented a new cost-based interconnection regime, which defined 10 Table of Contents operators controlling more than 25% of the market share as “dominant operators,” and required such dominant operators to extend interconnection offers to other telecommunications operators approved by the Government. The Government may assess and periodically review the tariffs proposed by dominant operators for approval. In contrast, telecommunications operators which are not designated as dominant operators may simply notify the Government regarding their tariffs and may implement such tariffs for its customers without Government approval. By the end of 2006, the Government had approved the RIOs of Telkom, Telkomsel and us. We cannot assure you that Government approval of our RIO will continue in the future. Moreover, the disparity in the treatment of dominant and non-dominant telecommunications operators may create opportunities for new entrants in the telecommunications industry, including increased flexibility to establish lower tariffs and offer lower pricing terms to their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A failure in the continuing operations of our network, certain key systems, gateways to our network or the networks of other network operators could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects We depend to a significant degree on the uninterrupted operation of our network to provide our services. For example, we depend on access to the PSTN for termination and origination of cellular telephone calls to and from fixed-line telephones, and a significant portion of our cellular and international long-distance call traffic is routed through the PSTN. The limited interconnection facilities of the PSTN available to us have adversely affected our business in the past and may adversely affect our business in the future. Because of interconnection capacity constraints, our cellular customers have at times experienced blocked calls. We cannot assure you that these interconnection facilities can be increased or maintained at current levels. We also depend on certain technologically sophisticated management information systems and other systems, such as our customer billing system, to enable us to conduct our operations. In addition, we rely to a certain extent on interconnection to the networks of other telecommunications operators to carry calls from our customers to the customers of fixed-line operators and other cellular operators both within Indonesia and overseas. Our network, including our information systems, information technology and infrastructure and the networks of other operators with whom our subscribers interconnect, are vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operation from a variety of sources including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss, equipment failure, network software flaws, transmission cable disruption or similar events. For example, our telecommunications control and information technology back-up facilities are highly concentrated with our headquarters and principal operating and tape back-up storage facilities located at two sites in Jakarta. Any failure that results in an interruption in our operations or the provision of any service, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, could damage our ability to attract and retain subscribers, cause significant subscriber dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to react to rapid technological changes could adversely affect our business The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. We may face increasing competition from technologies currently under development or which may be developed in the future. Future development or application of new or alternative technologies, services or standards could require significant changes to our business model, the development of new products, the provision of additional services and substantial new investments by us. For example, the development of fixed-mobile convergence technology, which allows a call that originates on a cellular handset to bypass a cellular network and instead be carried over a fixed-line telephone network, could adversely affect our business. New products and services may be expensive to develop and may result in the introduction of additional competitors into the marketplace. We cannot accurately predict how emerging and future technological changes will affect our operations or the competitiveness of our services. We cannot assure you that our technologies will not become obsolete, or be 11 Table of Contents subjected to competition from new technologies in the future, or that we will be able to acquire new technologies necessary to compete in changed circumstances on commercially acceptable terms. We depend on interconnection agreements with our competitors’ networks and on domestic telephone networks We are dependent on interconnection agreements with our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. If for any reason these interconnection arrangements are disputed, whether due to a failure by a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations or for any other reason, one or more of our services may be delayed, interrupted or stopped, the quality of our services may be lowered, our customer churn rates may increase or our interconnection rates may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the Government established a new cost-based interconnection regime in February 2006, which became effective on January 1, 2007. This new regime defines operators controlling more than 25% of the market share as “dominant operators” and requires such operators to interconnection offers to other telecommunications operators to be approved by the Government. By the end of 2006, the Government approved the RIOs of PT Telkom, PT Telkomsel, and us. Recently, all telecommunications operators have entered into new umbrella agreements for interconnection. However, each operator must enter into an additional agreement to interconnect with another operator, which may lead to delays in the implementation of the new interconnection regulations. Failure to enter into such agreements may increase our cost of terminating traffic to other telecommunications operators and may decrease our operating revenues received from other telecommunications operators for interconnection. We may be unable to obtain adequate financing to remain competitive in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia The delivery of telecommunications services is capital intensive. In order to be competitive, we must continually expand, modernize and update our technology, which involves substantial capital investment. Our ability to fund capital expenditures in the future will depend on our future operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and upon our ability to obtain additional external financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we can only incur additional financing in compliance with the terms of our debt agreements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to improve or expand our cellular telecommunications infrastructure or update our other technology to the extent necessary to remain competitive in the Indonesian telecommunications market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Government is the majority shareholder of our major competitors Telkom and PT Telekomunikasi Selular, or Telkomsel, and the Government of Singapore is a substantial shareholder of Telkomsel. Both governments may give priority to Telkom’s and Telkomsel’s businesses over ours As of March 31, 2007, the Government had a 14.29% equity stake in us and owns the Series A share, which has special voting rights and veto rights over certain strategic matters under our Articles of Association, including the decision to liquidate us. We understand that the Government and Indonesia Communications Limited, or ICL, a subsidiary of Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd, or ST Telemedia, had entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement that permitted the Government to appoint two nominees to each of the Board of Commissioners and the Board of Directors and ICL to appoint a simple majority of our Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors. We understand that the Shareholders’ Agreement ceased to be in effect on December 31, 2005. The Government remains the holder of the Series A share, which permits it to appoint one Commissioner and one Director. 12 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2006, the Government also had a 51.19% equity stake in Telkom, which is our foremost competitor in fixed IDD telecommunications services. As of the same date, Telkom owns a 65.0% interest in Telkomsel, one of our two main competitors in the provision of cellular services. The percentage of the Government’s ownership interest in Telkom is significantly greater than its ownership interest in us. We cannot assure you that significant Government policies and plans will support our business or that the Government will treat Telkom and us equally when implementing future decisions, or when exercising regulatory power over the Indonesian telecommunications industry. Temasek Holding (Private) Limited, which is owned by the Government of Singapore through its Ministry of Finance, is indirectly our major shareholder. Temasek Holding (Private) Limited, through its publicly listed subsidiary, Singapore Telecommunications Limited, holds a substantial beneficial interest in Telkomsel through Singapore Telecom Mobile Pte. Ltd. We cannot assure you that significant Government of Singapore policies and plans will support our business. Our controlling shareholders’ interests may differ from those of our other shareholders In December 2002, the Government sold 41.9% of our outstanding shares to ICL, a Mauritius company owned and controlled by ST Telemedia. ICL, and its controlling shareholder, have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and may cause us to take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our or our creditors’ best interests, including matters relating to our management and policies. We cannot assure you that our controlling shareholder will elect or be able to influence our business in a way that benefits our other shareholders or our creditors although nominees of ICL hold positions on our Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors. We rely on key management personnel, and our business may be adversely affected by any inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate key employees We believe that our current management team contributes significant experience and expertise to the management of our business. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategy in the future will depend in large part on the efforts of our key personnel. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia and this shortage is likely to continue. As a result, competition for certain specialist personnel is intense. In addition, as new market entrants begin or expand operations in Indonesia, certain of our key employees may leave their current positions. Our inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. On May 30, 2006, Mr. Hasnul Suhaimi delivered a resignation letter to us containing his resignation as President Director (Chief Executive Officer), citing personal reasons. Mr. Suhaimi’s term of office ended on June 8, 2006. Mr. Hasnul Suhaimi has accepted a position with Excelcomindo, a competing telecommunications operator in Indonesia, which move could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, results of operations and prospects. Risks Relating to our Cellular Services Business We may be unable to execute our cellular network expansion in a timely manner, at all or as planned, and such delay or failure may adversely affect our cellular services business, results of operations and prospects In late 2003, we merged with our legacy subsidiaries, Satelindo and PT Indosat Multi Media Mobile (“IM3”), which each operated a separate cellular network in Indonesia. In an effort to increase our subscriber base, improve our service quality and reduce our operating expenses, we undertook a program of cellular network integration. During the network integration and optimization process, we experienced periods of cellular service interruptions and inconsistent cellular service quality and network coverage. We completed the integration of the legacy network platforms by the end of 2005 and the network optimization in the first quarter of 2006. It remains unclear what impact, if any, such network coverage and service quality problems during the integration have had on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 13 Table of Contents We currently plan capital expenditures of approximately US$1.0 billion in 2007 with approximately 80% to 85% of such amount to be allocated to expenditures related to our cellular network. We expect these capital expenditures to include approximately 3,500 to 4,000 new BTSs. We plan to install such BTSs using both internal resources and “turn-key” projects carried out by outside vendors. We cannot assure you that our network expansion targets will be achieved due to the possibility of failures in our internal resources or from our outside vendors. Failure to achieve our network expansion target may affect and limit our network capacity and quality, which may adversely impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, we may have more difficulty competing with our competitors in providing network coverage and services to our customers. Competition from industry incumbents and new market entrants may adversely affect our cellular services business Our cellular services business competes primarily against Telkomsel and Excelcomindo. Several other cellular service providers also provide cellular services in Indonesia. In addition to current cellular service providers, the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology may license additional cellular service providers in the future, and such new entrants may compete with us. For instance, PT Hutchison Charoen Pokphand Telekomunikasi and PT Natrindo Telepon Seluler, or Lippo Telecom, launched their cellular services in the first quarter of 2007. Competition among cellular service providers in Indonesia is based on various factors, including pricing, network quality and coverage, the range of services and features offered and customer service. It is unclear what impact, if any, such new market entrants will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, we, together with our current competitors, may also be subject to competition from providers of new telecommunications services using new technology and the convergence of various telecommunications services. New and existing cellular service providers may significantly increase subscriber acquisition costs by offering more attractive product and service packages, resulting in higher churn rates, lower ARPU or a reduction, or slower growth, of our cellular subscriber base. In addition, although the Government has allocated all available GSM 900 and 1800 spectrum, we cannot assure you that additional spectrum will not become available in the future or that the Government will not reallocate existing spectrum from existing cellular service providers, including us. If we fail to utilize our spectrum capacity efficiently, or if we cannot finance the incremental capital expenditures necessary to utilize our spectrum capacity successfully as and when needed, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining cellular subscribers, which could have a material adverse effect on our cellular services business. To the extent our current or future competitors in GSM cellular services obtain additional spectrum capacity, our competitive position, cellular services business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In early 2006, the Government announced the tender to all telecommunications operators of three blocks of 5 MHz 3G spectrum. PT Hutchison Charoen Pokphand Telekomunikasi, formerly PT Cyber Access Communication and Lippo Telecom, had previously obtained 3G spectrum licenses and were not allowed to participate in the most recent tender process. Ultimately, we were awarded one 3G spectrum license for 5 MHz of paired spectrum for an up-front fee of Rp320.0 billion, the lowest of all telecommunications operators. Under the license, we are required to initiate 3G service in at least two areas covering 10% of population during the first year. Our primary competitors, Telkomsel and Excelcomindo, were also awarded 3G licenses. As a result, there are currently five telecommunications operators in Indonesia for 3G services and new licenses may be awarded to allocate remaining 3G spectrum. Telkomsel and Excelcomindo launched their 3G services in late 2006. On November 29, 2006, we launched our 3G services in two cities, Jakarta and Surabaya, thereby providing 3G service to 10% of the population as required under the terms of our license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue our 3G network expansion as planned, and as required by the Government. Failure to continue our 3G network expansion could result in a fine by the Government for non-compliance with the license terms and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 14 Table of Contents We face competition from our competitors’ fixed wireless services, which may have a material adverse effect on our cellular and fixed telecommunications services businesses In December 2002, Telkom introduced TelkomFlexi in Surabaya (East Java), Denpasar (Bali) and Balikpapan (East Kalimantan) using CDMA2000 1x fixed wireless technology. In May 2003, Telkom expanded TelkomFlexi to include the Jakarta area, and Bakrie Telecom, has launched a similar service for Jakarta, Banten and West Java since 2004. Telkom has since expanded TelkomFlexi to 216 cities nationwide. Telkom applies PSTN telephone tariffs for its fixed wireless service, which tariffs are substantially lower than those applied to cellular services, and pays lower regulatory fees than those applied to cellular services. Fixed wireless services using CDMA2000 1x technology possess mobility and features similar to those offered by cellular providers within one area code. Fixed wireless service quality may exceed GSM cellular service quality due to more efficient spectrum usage. We cannot assure you that the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology will not take affirmative steps to encourage the network build-out of fixed wireless networks. The introduction and availability of fixed wireless services and other similar technologies has increased competition based on price and product and service packages among cellular service providers. Fixed wireless services, particularly those offered without significant regulatory restrictions regarding mobility and a system to equalize regulatory fees and tariffs, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, resulting in, among other things, higher churn rates, lower ARPUs, slower growth in total cellular subscribers and increased subscriber acquisition costs. Since we introduced our StarOne fixed wireless service in May 2004, we have expanded the service to 22 cities and plan to expand such services to certain other cities. However, competition from Telkom, Bakrie Telecom, and other existing fixed wireless services providers that compete directly with us may cause prices to decline for such services and inhibit our ability to increase our total number of fixed wireless subscribers and to expand our fixed wireless services business. This competition may continue to intensify as a result of the new nationwide fixed wireless services licenses granted to Bakrie Telecom and Mobile-8 or if competitors such as Telkomsel and Exelcomindo are granted fixed wireless services licenses by the Government, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Cellular network congestion and limited spectrum availability could limit our cellular subscriber growth and cause reductions in our cellular service quality The rapid growth of our cellular subscriber base, together with increasing demand, has led to high cellular usage, particularly in dense urban areas. The available spectrum for use by a cellular network effectively limits its capacity. As a result, radio frequency engineering techniques, including a combination of macro, micro and in-building cellular designs, are needed to increase “erlang per square kilometer” and to maintain cellular network quality despite radio frequency interference and tighter radio frequency re-use patterns. Such radio frequency techniques have been deployed in dense urban environments such as Hong Kong, and we intend to use them when the erlang per square kilometer threshold approaches such a usage profile. However, if our cellular subscriber base should grow significantly larger in high-density areas, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to maintain and improve service quality, and we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve cellular service quality based on our current spectrum allocation. Our growth plans anticipate substantial expansion of our cellular network and a corresponding increase in our total number of cellular subscribers. We cannot assure you that such expansion plans will materialize or, if they do materialize, that we will be able to integrate additional cellular subscribers successfully. Failure to activate new cellular subscribers on a timely basis and to scale existing operational units to handle increased cellular traffic may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our CDMA frequency migration from 1900 MHz to 800 MHz in the Greater Jakarta areas and optimization of 800 MHz in other areas may cause a decline in cellular service quality and possible network interference On December 12, 2006, the Government granted us a license to provide two channels of nationwide fixed wireless service in the 800 MHz frequency. This license replaced our previous 1900 MHz fixed wireless license. 15 Table of Contents The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology’s Ministerial Decree No. 181/2006 on 800 MHz frequency channel allocation for local fixed wireless services requires us to migrate from the 1900 MHz frequency to the new 800 MHz frequency by the end of 2007 in the Greater Jakarta area. Due to changes to our service required to effect the frequency migration, we may experience inconsistent cellular service quality in our GSM cellular network and possible cellular network interference, and such service issues may be difficult to resolve because the new 800 MHz frequency is located near our GSM frequency allocation on the spectrum of available frequencies. We plan to complete the migration process for CDMA by the third quarter of 2007 and for GSM by the first quarter of 2008. However, we cannot assure you that the migration process will be implemented on time or as planned. Failure to complete the migration in a timely fashion or at all as well as inconsistent cellular service quality and possible cellular network interference related to the migration may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Despite spending significant financial resources to increase our cellular subscriber base, the number of our cellular subscribers may increase without a corresponding increase in our operating revenues As we spend significant financial resources to develop and expand our cellular network, we believe we will continue to add cellular subscribers. However, a continued decline in effective tariffs for voice usage resulting from our recent “free-talk” campaign and related promotions, increasing SMS usage and greater cellular penetration in the lower-income segment of the market may cause a decrease in ARPU and our total number of cellular subscribers to increase without a corresponding increase in our operating revenues. In addition, the uncertain economic situation in Indonesia and increasing prices of primary goods may decrease our cellular subscribers’ purchasing power. We cannot assure you that expansion of our cellular subscriber base, if such expansion occurs, will result in corresponding increases to our operating revenues and will not result in decreases in ARPU. Our ability to maintain and expand our cellular network or conduct our business may be affected by disruption of supplies and services from our principal suppliers We rely upon a few principal vendors to supply a substantial portion of the equipment required to maintain and expand our cellular network, including our microwave backbone, and upon other vendors in relation to other supplies necessary to conduct our business. We depend on equipment and other supplies and services from such vendors to maintain and replace key components of our cellular network and to operate our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies or services in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or if there are significant increases in the cost of such supplies or services, our ability to maintain and to expand our cellular network and our results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We depend on our licenses to provide cellular services, and our licenses could be cancelled if we fail to comply with their terms and conditions We rely on licenses issued by the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology for the provision of our cellular services as well as for the utilization of our allocated spectrum frequencies. The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, with due regard to prevailing laws and regulations, may amend the terms of our licenses at its discretion. Any breach of the terms and conditions of our licenses or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in our licenses being cancelled. Any revocation or unfavorable amendment of the terms of our licenses, or any failure to renew them on comparable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Relating to Our MIDI Services Business Competition with our MIDI services is increasing, and we may experience declining margins from such services as competition intensifies Our MIDI services are facing increased competition from established operators, which may have wider customer bases and greater financial resources than us, such as Telkom, with its broad international reach and developed 16 Table of Contents domestic infrastructure. In addition, new operators such as Excelcomindo and Icon+, which have alliances with foreign telecommunications operators, compete with us in this business segment. Moreover, our satellite business faces increasing competition as new, more powerful satellites are launched and as companies acquire exclusive licenses to provide broadcast services in Indonesia, including Indovision’s acquisition of an exclusive license to provide direct-to-home television services. We lease transponder space on our Palapa-C2 satellite for periods of two to five years, and we estimate the remaining useful life of such satellite to be approximately four years. As additional satellites become operational, as our transponder leases expire or are terminated and price competition intensifies, our transponder lessees may utilize other satellites, thereby adversely affecting our operating margins and operating revenues from such services. Uncertainty related to tariffs for our MIDI services may adversely impact our profit margins On January 26, 2007, the Government issued a new regulation for MIDI services which sets the policy and ceiling price formula for tariffs for leased circuits. Given the recent implementation of this change in tariff structure, we face uncertainty regarding how the new regulation will impact our tariffs for leased circuits. Previously, we had calculated certain tariffs at prices above and certain prices below the ceiling price. Accordingly, we may experience decreasing profit margins from leased circuits if the new ceiling price of the leased circuit is below our current pricing, and if other competitors offer more competitive pricing. This regulation may also adversely impact our MIDI revenues derived from services which use leased circuits in the transmission of Internet protocol services and satellite services. Our satellite has a limited operational life and may be damaged or completely destroyed during operation. The loss or reduced performance of our satellite, whether caused by equipment failure or its license being revoked, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to provide certain services Our Palapa-C2 satellite has a limited operational life, which is presently estimated to end in January 2011. A number of factors affect the operational lives of satellites, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, on-board fuel reserves, the launch vehicle used and the manner in which the satellite is monitored and operated. We currently use satellite transponder capacity on our satellite in connection with many aspects of our business, including direct leasing of such capacity and routing for our international long-distance and cellular services. Our satellite could fail prior to January 2011, and we believe in-orbit repairs would not be feasible. Moreover, ITU regulations specify that a designated satellite slot has been allocated for Indonesia, and the Government has the right to determine which party is licensed to use such slot. While we currently hold a license to use the designated satellite slot, in the event our Palapa-C2 satellite experiences technical problems or failure, the Government may determine that we have failed to optimize the existing slot under our license, which may result in the Government withdrawing our license and granting it to one of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain use of the designated satellite slot in an manner deemed satisfactory by the Government. We maintain in-orbit insurance in the event of the total loss of the Palapa-C2 satellite prior to 2011, providing for a single payment of US$12.0 million in the event that the satellite is lost or destroyed. Palapa-C2’s satellite control processor has been identified as prone to failure, and our satellite insurance excludes from coverage satellite malfunction caused by failure of the satellite control processor. If the damage or failure renders our satellite unfit for use, we may elect to cease our satellite operations or lease transponder capacity from a third-party provider rather than acquiring a new satellite. The termination of our satellite business could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and increase operating expenses associated with our provision of other telecommunications services. Risks Relating to Our Fixed Telecommunications Services Business Our CDMA frequency migration from 1900 MHZ to 800 MHz in the Greater Jakarta areas and optimization to the 800 MHz frequency in other areas may cause a decline in fixed wireless service quality and possible cellular network interference Since 2004, we have operated fixed wireless access services in Jakarta, Surabaya and surrounding areas using CDMA2000 1x fixed wireless technology. We provide such services through a 5 MHz spectrum allocation in the 17 Table of Contents 1,900 MHz band for the Jakarta, West Java, and Banten regions and through a 5 MHz spectrum in the 800 MHz band for other areas of the country. In 2005, the Government implemented regulations requiring that all telecommunications services using CDMA2000 1x fixed wireless technology must migrate to the 800 MHz band, and that after December 2007, the 1,900 MHz band would be reserved exclusively for 3G cellular services. In addition, the Government declared that no compensation would be provided to telecommunications operators in connection with any necessary frequency migrations related to the implementation of such regulations and that we were not allowed to develop or expand our fixed wireless access in the Jakarta, West Java and Banten regions. On December 12, 2006, the Government allocated two channels of nationwide fixed wireless spectrum to us in the 800 MHz frequency. This license replaces our previous 1900 MHz fixed wireless license. The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology’s Ministerial Decree No. 181/2006 on 800 MHz frequency channel allocation for local fixed wireless services requires us to migrate from the 1900 MHz frequency to the new 800 MHz frequency by the end of 2007 in the Greater Jakarta area. We also plan to expand our StarOne services to several more cities in 2007, either through increased capital expenditures, reallocation of our existing planned expenditures, or a combination of the foregoing. Because we have to upgrade our existing radio equipment from 1900 MHz to 800 MHz equipment to complete the frequency migration, we may experience inconsistent network service quality during this migration period. We plan to complete the migration process for CDMA by the third quarter of 2007. However, we cannot assure you that the migration process will be implemented on time, at all or as planned. Failure to complete this migration in a timely fashion or at all and decreased fixed wireless or cellular service quality and possible cellular network interference resulting from the migration may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The entry of Telkom, a well-established Indonesian telecommunications industry incumbent, as a provider of international long-distance services could adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins, market share and results of operations Telkom, a well-established Indonesian telecommunications incumbent with significant political and financial resources, obtained a license to provide international long-distance services on May 13, 2004 and launched its commercial service on June 7, 2004. Telkom’s entry into the international long-distance market poses a significant competitive threat to us. As a result of Telkom’s entry into the international long-distance market, we lost market share and experienced other adverse effects relating to our fixed telecommunications services business. By the end of 2006, Telkom had acquired substantially greater market share than us for international long-distance services. In addition, the Government is currently considering issuing a new international long-distance license to another telecommunications operator in an effort to encourage greater competition in the Indonesian long-distance services market. We cannot assure you that such adverse effects will not continue or that such increased competition will not continue to erode our market share or adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins and results of operations. VoIP usage is increasing, and certain customers use VoIP services rather than traditional international long-distance services, which may continue to have a material adverse impact on our fixed telecommunications services business Worldwide and Indonesian trends indicate increased usage of VoIP services and a corresponding decrease in the usage of traditional international long-distance services. The cost structure for providers of VoIP services is lower than that for traditional fixed-line operators and as such, VoIP services are customarily offered at significant cost savings compared to international long-distance services. Availability of VoIP services, despite their lower quality as compared to international long-distance services, may continue to adversely impact our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services due to lower traffic volumes and reduced pricing plans for our traditional international long-distance services. 18 Table of Contents A decrease in applicable accounting rates may adversely affect our operating revenues derived from interconnection fees charged to foreign telecommunications operators Telecommunications providers make interconnection settlements based on established accounting rates contained in agreements between such providers. These agreements are subject to periodic renegotiation and, in recent years, certain foreign telecommunications operators have negotiated reductions in accounting rates. As a result, international accounting rates have decreased in recent years, and we expect that they will continue to decrease. Any reduction in accounting rates with foreign telecommunications operators may result in reduced interconnection revenues derived from international incoming calls. Interconnection revenues from foreign telecommunications operators may be unreliable, and we may not receive all monies due in connection with the provision of our fixed telecommunications services A significant portion of our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services consists of amounts received from foreign telecommunications operators for handling incoming calls to Indonesia. Such operators may not pay these interconnection amounts to us promptly as such amounts become due and payable. Further, adverse economic conditions experienced by such foreign telecommunications operators in their home countries may adversely affect such operators’ ability to pay such interconnection amounts to us in a timely manner or at all. The unstable economic and political situation in Indonesia may adversely affect the level of international business activity in Indonesia, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues from international long-distance services Our international long-distance services are impacted by the levels of international business activity and tourism in Indonesia, international accounting rates, tariffs for international long-distance, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Indonesian rupiah against the U.S. dollar and compensation to telecommunications carriers and service providers. The continued unstable economic and political situation in Indonesia, including events preceding the General Election in 2009, may adversely affect foreign investment and international business activity in Indonesia, which may result in lower customer demand for our international long-distance services. We may be unable to retain both of our international access codes, and the loss of either access code may adversely impact our operating revenues from fixed telecommunications services and our marketing strategy for our fixed telecommunications services In August 2003, we received confirmation from the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology that we could continue to provide international long-distance services pursuant to the operating license of our legacy subsidiary, Satelindo, using its “008” international access code in conjunction with our “001” international access code. We have attempted to market these international access codes as distinct brands targeted to different corporate and consumer segments. We cannot assure you that the Government will allow us to continue using both international access codes. If the Government restricts our ability to use both international access codes, our marketing strategy for international long-distance services, and operating revenues related to such services, would be adversely affected. 