RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Indonesia We are incorporated in Indonesia and substantially all of our operations, assets and customers are located in Indonesia. As a result, future political, economic, legal and social conditions in Indonesia, as well as certain actions and policies which the Government may, or may not, take or adopt may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Domestic, regional or global economic changes may adversely affect our business The economic crisis which affected Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, from mid-1997 was characterized in Indonesia by, among other things, currency depreciation, negative economic growth, high interest rates, social unrest and extraordinary political events. These conditions had a material adverse effect on Indonesian businesses, including a material adverse effect on the quality and growth of our subscriber base and service offerings, which depend on the health of the overall Indonesian economy. In addition, the economic crisis resulted in the failure of many Indonesian companies to meet their debt obligations. Beginning in 2008, the global financial crisis which was triggered in part by the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States, caused failures of large U.S. financial institutions and rapidly evolved into a global credit crisis. U.S. bank failures were followed by failures in a number of European banks and declines in various stock indexes, as well as large reductions in the market value of equities and commodities worldwide, including in Indonesia. In addition, since 2010, the European sovereign debt crisis has created concerns about the ability of a number of European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. These conditions may result in worsening economic conditions in Europe and globally. The world economic downturn has adversely affected the economic performance of Indonesia, resulting in declining economic growth, slowing household consumption and weakening investment due to loss of external demand and increased uncertainty in the world economy. These conditions have had and may continue to have a negative impact on Indonesian businesses and consumers, which may result in reduced demand for telecommunication services. Volatility in oil prices and potential food shortages may also cause an economic slowdown in many countries, including Indonesia. An economic downturn in Indonesia could also lead to defaults by Indonesian borrowers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. The Government continues to have a large fiscal deficit and a high level of sovereign debt. Its foreign currency reserves are modest and the banking sector is weak and suffers from relatively high levels of non-performing loans. Consumer price index (“CPI”) increased significantly in 2013 by approximately 8.4% (year-on-year), according to the Indonesian Central Statistics Bureau. This increase was primarily due to higher prices in transportation, communication and food. The rise in CPI was in line with Bank Indonesia forecasts, as it primarily related to a rise in fuel prices caused by the planned reduction of government fuel subsidies that became effective in late June 2013. On June 22, 2013, due to the reduction in government fuel subsidies on a per liter basis, the price of regular gasoline in Indonesia increased 44.4% from Rp4,500 per liter to Rp6,500 per liter and the price of diesel increased 22.2% from Rp4,500 per liter to Rp5,500 per liter. There can be no assurance that the recent proposed increase in subsidized fuel prices, or cuts in fuel subsidies in the future, will not result in political and social instability. In July 2013, Bank Indonesia increased the Bank Indonesia reference rate (the “BI Rate”) by 50 basis points to 6.50% after previously increasing the BI Rate by 25 basis points in June 2013. Bank Indonesia subsequently increased the BI Rate to 7.00% in August 2013, 7.25% in September 2013 and to 7.50% in November 2013. The current high inflation rate in Indonesia and any further increases in the cost of essential items or rise in commodity prices may result in less disposable income available to consumers to spend or cause consumer 7 Table of Contents purchasing power to decrease, which may reduce consumer demand for telecommunication services, including our services. Any decreases in commodity prices in the outlying regions of Indonesia may also result in increased unemployment and therefore affect our customers’ purchasing power. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of emerging and other markets, or other factors, including the deterioration of the global economic situation, may cause increased volatility in the Indonesian financial markets and a slowdown in economic growth or negative economic growth in Indonesia. Any such increased volatility or slowdown or negative growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Political and social instability may adversely affect us Since 1998, Indonesia has experienced a process of democratic change, resulting in political and social events that have highlighted the unpredictable nature of Indonesia’s changing political landscape. These events have resulted in political instability as well as general social and civil unrest on certain occasions in the past few years. As a relatively new democratic country, Indonesia continues to face various socio-political issues and has, from time to time, experienced political instability and social and civil unrest. Since 2000, thousands of Indonesians have participated in demonstrations in Jakarta and other Indonesian cities both for and against former President Wahid, former President Megawati, and current President Yudhoyono, as well as in response to specific issues, including fuel subsidy reductions, privatization of state assets, anti-corruption measures, the bailout of PT Bank Century in 2008, decentralization and provincial autonomy and the American-led military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. In June 2001, demonstrations and strikes affected at least 19 cities after the Government mandated a 30.0% increase in fuel prices. Similar demonstrations in response to the Government’s plans to reduce fuel subsidies occurred in 2003, 2005, 2008 and 2012. Similar demonstrations also occurred in 2013 in response to the Government’s reduction in government fuel subsidies. Although past demonstrations were generally peaceful, some turned violent. We cannot assure you that any future fuel subsidy reductions will not lead to further political and social instability. Regional political instability and clashes between religious and ethnic groups remain problematic. Separatist movements and clashes between religious and ethnic groups have resulted in social and civil unrest in parts of Indonesia. In the provinces of Aceh and Papua (formerly Irian Jaya), there have been clashes between supporters of those separatist movements and the Indonesian military, although there has been little conflict in Aceh since a memorandum of understanding was signed in August 2005. In recent years, political instability in Maluku and Poso, a district in the province of Central Sulawesi, has intensified and clashes between religious groups in these regions have resulted in thousands of casualties and displaced persons. In recent years, the Government has made limited progress in negotiations with these troubled regions, except in the Province of Aceh where peaceful local elections were held in April 2012, which resulted in former separatists winning the election and becoming the governors of the province. In 2004 and in 2009, elections were held in Indonesia to elect the President, Vice-President and representatives in the Parliament and, in April 2014, to elect representatives for parliament. Although the 2004 and 2009 elections and 2014 parliamentary elections were conducted peacefully, political campaigns in Indonesia may bring a degree of political and social uncertainty to Indonesia. Increased political activity can be expected in Indonesia, in part due to the upcoming presidential election in 2014. Political and related social developments in Indonesia have been unpredictable in the past, and we cannot assure you that social and civil disturbances will not occur in the future and on a wider scale, or that any such disturbances will not, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 8 Table of Contents Indonesia is located in an earthquake zone and is subject to significant geological risks which could lead to social unrest and economic loss Many parts of Indonesia are vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions as well as droughts, power outages or other events beyond our control. In recent years, several natural disasters have occurred in Indonesia (in addition to the Asian tsunami in 2004), including volcanic eruptions of Mount Merapi in southern Java near Yogyakarta and Mount Bromo in East Java in 2010, Mount Lokon in North Sulawesi in 2011, tsunamis in Pangandaran in West Java in 2006 and in Mentawai in West Sumatera in 2010, separate earthquakes in Yogyakarta in 2006, in Papua, West Java, Sulawesi and Sumatra in 2009, off the coast of Sumatra in January 2012 and a hot mud eruption and subsequent flooding in Sidoarjo in East Java in 2006. Indonesia also experienced significant flooding in Wasior district in West Papua in 2010, in Jakarta in 2007 and 2009 and in Solo in Central Java in 2008. More recently, in January 2013, floods in Jakarta resulted in disruptions to businesses and extensive evacuations in the city and, in September 2013, Mount Sinabung in North Sumatra erupted. In February 2014, more than 100,000 people were evacuated due to the volcanic eruption of Mount Kelud in East Java. As a result of these natural disasters, the Government has had to spend significant amounts on emergency aid and resettlement efforts. Most of these costs have been underwritten by foreign governments and international aid agencies. We cannot assure you that such aid will continue to be forthcoming, or that it will be delivered to recipients on a timely basis. If the Government is unable to timely deliver foreign aid to affected communities, political and social unrest could result. While the Government has implemented various measures to mitigate the losses caused by natural disasters, such as establishing a national board for disaster mitigation and installing tsunami early warning systems, recovery and relief efforts are likely to continue to impose a strain on the Government’s finances, and may affect its ability to meet its obligations on its sovereign debt. Any such failure on the part of the Government, or declaration by it of a moratorium on its sovereign debt, could trigger an event of default under numerous private-sector borrowings including those of our Company, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us from potential losses resulting from such natural disasters and other events beyond our control. In addition, we cannot assure you that the premium payable for these insurance policies upon renewal will not increase substantially, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure you that future geological or meteorological occurrences will not have more of an impact on the Indonesian economy. A significant earthquake, other geological disturbance or weather-related natural disaster in any of Indonesia’s more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Indonesian economy and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist activities in Indonesia could destabilize the country, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects Several bombing incidents have taken place in Indonesia, most significantly in October 2002 in Bali, a region of Indonesia previously considered safe from the unrest affecting other parts of the country. Other bombing incidents, although on a lesser scale, have also been committed in Indonesia on a number of occasions over the past few years, including at shopping centers and places of worship. In April 2003, a bomb exploded outside the main United Nations building in Jakarta and in front of the domestic terminal at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport. In August 2003, a bomb exploded at the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta, and in September 2004, a bomb exploded in front of the Australian embassy in Jakarta. In May 2005, bomb blasts in Central Sulawesi killed at least 21 people and injured at least 60 people. In October 2005, bomb blasts in Bali killed at least 23 people and injured at least 101 others. Indonesian, Australian and U.S. government officials have indicated that these bombings may be linked to an international terrorist organization. Demonstrations have taken place in Indonesia in response to plans for and subsequent to U.S., British and Australian military action in Iraq. 9 Table of Contents In January 2007, sectarian terrorists conducted bombings in Poso. In July 2009, bomb blasts in the JW Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta killed six people and injured at least 50 people. Further terrorist acts may occur in the future and may be directed at foreigners in Indonesia. Violent acts arising from, and leading to, instability and unrest could destabilize Indonesia and the Government and have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on investment and confidence in, and the performance of, the Indonesian economy, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operations may be adversely affected by an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), avian influenza, Influenza A (H1N1) virus or other epidemics In 2003, certain countries in Asia including, Indonesia, the China, Vietnam, Thailand and Cambodia, experienced an outbreak of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted the economic activities in, and the demand for goods plummeted in, the affected regions. During recent years, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian influenza. In addition, the WHO announced in June 2006 that human-to-human transmission of avian influenza had been confirmed in Sumatra, Indonesia. The United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization warned in March 2008 that avian influenza virus was entrenched in 31 of Indonesia’s 33 provinces and efforts to contain avian influenza are failing in Indonesia. As of January 24, 2014, the World Health Organization (“WHO”) had confirmed a total of 386 fatalities in a total number of 650 cases reported to the WHO, which only reports laboratory confirmed cases of avian influenza. Of these, the Indonesian Ministry of Health reported to the WHO 163 fatalities in a total number of 195 cases of avian influenza in Indonesia. According to the WHO, there were 55 reported human cases of avian influenza in 2006, 42 cases in 2007, 24 cases in 2008, 21 cases in 2009, nine cases in 2010, 12 cases in 2011, nine cases in 2012 and three cases in 2013. In spite of the decreasing number of human cases and the implementation of avian influenza prevention and control measures, no fully effective avian influenza vaccines have been developed, an effective vaccine may not be discovered in time to protect against a potential avian influenza pandemic and the virus may mutate into a deadlier form. Outbreaks in animals, particularly in birds, and in humans are expected to occur from time to time, as long as avian influenza remains endemic in many provinces in Indonesia. In April 2009, there was an outbreak of the Influenza A (H1N1) virus, which originated in Mexico but has since spread globally, including confirmed reports in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and elsewhere in Asia. The Influenza A (H1N1) virus is believed to be highly contagious and may not be easily contained. An outbreak of SARS, avian influenza, Influenza A (H1N1) virus or a similar epidemic or the perception that an outbreak of such diseases or a similar epidemic may occur, or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries, including Indonesia, against such an outbreak, could severely disrupt the Indonesian and other economies and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. Labor activism and unrest may adversely affect our business The liberalization of regulations permitting the formation of labor unions, combined with weak economic conditions, has resulted, and will likely continue to result, in labor unrest and activism in Indonesia. In 2000, the Government issued a labor regulation allowing employees to form unions without employer intervention. In March 2003, the Government enacted a manpower law, Law No. 13 of 2003 (the “Labor Law”), which, among other things, increased the amount of required severance, service and compensation payments to terminated employees, and required employers with 50 or more employees to establish bipartite forums with the participation of employers and employees. To negotiate a collective labor agreement with such a company, a labor union’s membership must consist of more than 50.0% of the company’s employees. In response to a challenge to its validity, the Indonesian Constitutional Court declared the Labor Law to be mostly valid, except 10 Table of Contents for certain provisions relating to, among others, (i) the right of an employer to terminate its employee who committed a serious mistake; (ii) the imprisonment of, or imposition of a monetary penalty on, an employee who instigates or participates in an illegal labor strike or persuades other employees to participate in a labor strike; (iii) the requirement to allow outsourcing or subcontracting arrangements with a temporary employment contract that does not stipulate for the transfer of undertakings protection of employment provision; and (iv) the requirement that a labor union obtain the presentation of at least 50.0% of employees (for a company that has more than one labor union) to be eligible to conduct negotiations with an employer. The Government proposed to amend the Labor Law in a manner which, in the view of labor activists, would result in reduced pension benefits, the increased use of outsourced employees and prohibitions on unions to conduct strikes. The proposal has been suspended and the new Government regulation addressing lay-offs of workers has not yet become effective. Labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect the financial condition of Indonesian companies in general and the value of the Indonesian rupiah relative to other currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Depreciation in the value of the Indonesian rupiah may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects One of the most important immediate causes of the economic crisis which began in Indonesia in mid-1997 was the depreciation and volatility of the value of the Indonesian rupiah, as measured against other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Although the Indonesian rupiah has appreciated considerably from its low point of approximately Rp17,000 per U.S. dollar in 1998, it may experience volatility again in the future. During the period between January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013, the Indonesian rupiah/U.S. dollar middle exchange rate ranged from a low of Rp12,270 per U.S. dollar to a high of Rp8,460 per U.S. dollar. During the year 2013, the Indonesian rupiah/U.S. dollar middle exchange rate announced by Bank Indonesia ranged from a low of Rp12,270 per U.S. dollar to a high of Rp9,634 per U.S. dollar. For more information, see “Item 3: Key Information—Exchange Rate Information.” We cannot assure you that future depreciation or volatility of the Indonesian rupiah against other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, will not occur. To the extent the Indonesian rupiah depreciates further from the exchange rate at December 31, 2013, our obligations under our accounts payable, procurements payable and our foreign currency-denominated loans payable and bonds payable would increase in Indonesian rupiah terms. Such depreciation of the Indonesia rupiah would result in additional losses on foreign exchange translation and significantly impact our other income and net income. In addition, while the Indonesian rupiah has generally been freely convertible and transferable (except that Indonesian banks may not transfer Indonesian rupiah to persons outside of Indonesia who lack a bona fide trade or investment purpose), from time to time, Bank Indonesia has intervened in the currency exchange markets in furtherance of its policies, either by selling Indonesian rupiah or by using its foreign currency reserves to purchase Indonesian rupiah. We cannot assure you that the current floating exchange rate policy of Bank Indonesia will not be modified or that the Government will take additional action to stabilize, maintain or increase the value of the Indonesian rupiah, or that any of these actions, if taken, will be successful. Modification of the current floating exchange rate policy could result in significantly higher domestic interest rates, liquidity shortages, capital or exchange controls or the withholding of additional financial assistance by multinational lenders. This could result in a reduction of economic activity, an economic recession, loan defaults or declining usage of our subscribers, and as a result, we may also face difficulties in funding our capital expenditures and in implementing our business strategy. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 11 Table of Contents Downgrades of credit ratings of the Government or Indonesian companies could adversely affect our business Beginning in 1997, certain recognized statistical rating organizations, including Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, and Fitch, downgraded Indonesia’s sovereign rating and the credit ratings of various credit instruments of the Government and a large number of Indonesian banks and other companies. As of April 24, 2014, Indonesia’s sovereign foreign currency long-term debt was rated “Baa3” by Moody’s, “BB+” by Standard & Poor’s, and “BBB-” by Fitch. These ratings reflect an assessment of the Government’s overall financial capacity to pay its obligations and its ability or willingness to meet its financial commitments as they become due. Even though the recent trend in Indonesian sovereign ratings has been positive, we cannot assure you that Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch or any other statistical rating organization will not downgrade the credit ratings of Indonesia or Indonesian companies, including us. Any such downgrade could have an adverse impact on liquidity in the Indonesian financial markets, the ability of the Government and Indonesian companies, including us, to raise additional financing and the interest rates and other commercial terms at which such additional financing is available. Interest rates on our floating rate Indonesian rupiah-denominated debt would also likely increase. Such events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The delisting of our ADSs from the NYSE and our intended deregistration under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), may influence trading opportunities for our shares We voluntarily delisted trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange effective May 17, 2013. We will continue to be subject to reporting obligations under the Exchange Act until such time as we can terminate our registration under it. Following the delisting from the NYSE and termination of the ADS program, the only trading market for our common stock is the IDX. See “—Conditions in the Indonesian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of our shares.” In addition, the delisting and the termination of our ADS program may result in holders of ADRs surrendering their ADRs or ADSs evidenced thereby in exchange for the underlying shares and selling them on the IDX. The termination of our ADS program will also mean that, on and from July 24, 2014, the Depositary will start to sell the shares underlying any ADSs that remain outstanding as at that date. Such sales could affect the price of our shares on the IDX. Conditions in the Indonesian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of our shares The Indonesian capital markets are less liquid and have different reporting standards than markets in the United States and many other countries. Also, prices in the Indonesian capital markets are typically more volatile than in such other markets. In the past, Indonesian stock exchanges have experienced some problems which if they were to continue or recur, could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indonesian companies, including our shares. These problems have included closures of exchanges, broker defaults and strikes and settlement delays. In addition, the governing body of the IDX has from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. The levels of regulation and monitoring of the Indonesian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other market participants are not the same as in certain other countries. In addition, the ability to sell and settle trades on the IDX may be subject to delays. In light of the foregoing, a shareholder may not be able to dispose of its shares at prices or at times at which such holder would be able to do so in more liquid or less volatile markets or at all. We are subject to corporate disclosure and reporting requirements that differ from those in other countries Our common stock is listed on the IDX, which is the only trading market for our common stock. Our ADSs were listed on the NYSE from October 18, 1994 until we voluntarily delisted trading of the ADSs effective 12 Table of Contents May 17, 2013. We are subject to corporate governance and reporting requirements that differ, in significant respects, from those applicable to companies in certain other countries including the United States. The amount of information made publicly available by issuers in Indonesia may be less than that made publicly available by comparable companies in certain more developed countries, and certain statistical and financial information of a type typically published by companies in certain more developed countries may not be available. As a result, investors may not have access to the same level and type of disclosure as that available in other countries, and comparisons with other companies in other countries may not be possible in all respects. We are incorporated in Indonesia, and it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process, or enforce judgments, on us within the United States, or to enforce judgments of a foreign court against us in Indonesia We are a limited liability company incorporated in Indonesia, operating within the framework of Indonesian laws relating to foreign capital invested companies, and all of our significant assets are located in Indonesia. In addition, several of our Commissioners and substantially all of our Directors reside in Indonesia and a substantial portion of the assets of such persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process, or enforce judgments, on us or such persons within the United States, or to enforce against us or such persons in the United States, judgments obtained in U.S. courts. We have been advised by our Indonesian legal advisor that judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the United States, are not enforceable in Indonesian courts, although such judgments could be admissible as non-conclusive evidence in a proceeding on the underlying claim in an Indonesian court. There is doubt as to whether Indonesian courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Indonesian courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state within the United States. As a result, the claimant would be required to pursue claims against us or such persons in Indonesian courts. Risks Relating to Our Business We operate in a legal and regulatory environment that has been undergoing significant reforms. These reforms have been resulting in increased competition, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenues, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us The regulatory reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector, which was initiated by the Government in 1999, resulted in the liberalization of the telecommunications industry, including facilitation of new market entrants and changes to the competitive structure of the telecommunications industry. However, in recent years, the volume and complexity of regulatory changes has created an environment of considerable regulatory uncertainty. In addition, as the reform of the Indonesian telecommunications sector continues, competitors, potentially with greater resources than us, may enter the Indonesian telecommunications sector and compete with us in providing telecommunications services. For example, since January 2007, the Government, through the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (“MOCIT”), has been responsible for setting reference tariffs for interconnection services. See “Item 3: Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—We depend on interconnection agreements relating to the use of our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line telephone networks.” The MOCIT sets interconnection tariffs for dominant service providers on a “cost” basis as calculated by it, based on network and other cost data submitted by the dominant service providers. In contrast, telecommunications operators which are not designated as dominant operators may simply notify the MOCIT regarding their interconnection terms and conditions, including tariffs, and may implement such terms and conditions or tariffs for its customers without MOCIT approval. The disparity in the treatment of dominant and non-dominant telecommunications operators may create opportunities for new entrants in the telecommunications industry, providing them with increased flexibility to establish lower tariffs and offer lower pricing terms to their customers. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the tariffs in our RIOs have been decreasing in the past few years, and we expect this downward trend to continue. Any decrease in the amount of interconnection costs might reduce our revenue and also our costs for inter-operator traffic. On December 12, 2011, the Government, through the Indonesian Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (“ITRA”) issued letter No.262/BRTI/XII/2011 under which SMS fees changed from a “sender-keeps all” scheme to a cost-based scheme, effective June 1, 2012. Under the current cost-based scheme, we record revenues from interconnection fees payable by other operators whenever one of our subscribers receives an SMS from a subscriber on another network. If one of our subscribers sends an SMS to a recipient on another network, we record revenues for the SMS charge payable by our subscriber and record expenses for interconnection charges payable to the operator of the other network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully recoup all interconnection charges we may be required to pay, and as a result, we could experience a decrease in our operating revenues from cellular services. In the future, the Government may announce or implement other regulatory changes, such as changes in interconnection or tariff policies, which may adversely affect our business or our existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with other domestic and foreign telecommunications operators or that regulatory changes, amendments or interpretations of current or future laws and regulations promulgated by the Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We operate under an uncertain law enforcement environment, which may affect our business and competitiveness On January 13, 2012, Mr. Indar Atmanto, the former President Director of PT Indosat Mega Media (“IM2”) was accused of corruption by the Attorney General’s Office (“AGO”). According to the AGO, a state loss amounting to Rp1,358.3 billion was caused by an agreement between IM2 and our Company, related to the alleged illegal use by IM2 of our Company’s 2.1 GHz frequency band. The MOCIT issued letter No. 65/M.KOMINFO/02/2012 on February 24, 2012 stating that there was no breach of law, crime committed, and no state loss resulting from the agreement between our Company and IM2. Moreover the MOCIT has also sent a letter to the AGO directly which states that neither our Company nor IM2 has violated any regulation and the collaboration between our Company and IM2 is lawful under the prevailing laws and regulations and common practices in the telecommunication industry. In addition, the ITRA publicly stated that IM2 had not breached any laws or prevailing rules. However, the AGO ignored the letters from the MOCIT and, on November 30, 2012, named our former President Director as a suspect and, on January 3, 2013, also named IM2 and our Company as corporate suspects. On July 8, 2013, the Corruption Court found Mr. Atmanto guilty of corruption and sentenced him to four years imprisonment and a monetary fine of Rp200 million (or an additional three months’ imprisonment). Furthermore, the Corruption Court found IM2 liable for restitution for state losses caused by such transaction and imposed a monetary fine of Rp1,358.3 billion. On July 11, 2013, Mr. Atmanto lodged his appeal against the Corruption Court’s ruling. On January 10, 2014, the Central Jakarta’s High Court affirmed the Corruption Court’s decision and imposed a higher sentence of eight years’ imprisonment and a separate monetary fine of Rp200 million (or an additional three months’ imprisonment). However, the High Court found that the Corruption Court could not impose a monetary sanction against IM2 which, as a separate legal entity, had not been separately indicted in the AGO’s litigation against Mr. Atmanto, and reversed the Corruption Court’s decision with respect to IM2. On January 23, 2014, Mr. Atmanto filed a petition for appeal to the Supreme Court and, on February 7, 2014 submitted memoranda of appeal. As of April 24, 2014, Mr. Atmanto had not received any decision from the Supreme Court with respect to his appeal. As of the same date, our former President Director, IM2 and our Company had not been formally charged for any wrongdoing in relation to this subject matter. There can be no assurance that the AGO or any Government entity will not bring a similar or other lawsuits against IM2, our Company or any of our officers. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that Mr. Atmanto’s appeal will be decided in his favor. An unfavorable court decision relating to these matters may result in excessive fines to restore alleged state losses. Moreover, we have similar agreements with other internet service providers in 14 Table of Contents Indonesia and there can be no assurance that similar cases will not be filed against us in relation to those agreements. A decision adverse to us in this case or others that may be filed against us in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and competitiveness. We may be unable to fund the capital expenditures needed for us to remain competitive in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia The delivery of telecommunications services is capital intensive. In order to be competitive, we must continually expand, modernize and update our telecommunications infrastructure technology, which involves substantial capital investment. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our actual consolidated capital expenditures totaled Rp6,511.3 billion, Rp8,396.6 billion and Rp9,371.0 billion (US$768.8 million), respectively. During 2014, we intend to allocate Rp9,871.9 billion (US$809.9 million) for new capital expenditures, which, taken together with estimated actual capital expenditures expended for 2014 for capital expenditure commitments in prior periods, is expected to result in approximately Rp15,506.9 billion (US$1,272.2 million) total actual capital expenditures for 2014. Our ability to fund capital expenditures in the future will depend on our future operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and upon our ability to obtain additional external financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we can only incur additional financing in compliance with the terms of our debt agreements. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to improve or expand our telecommunications infrastructure technology or update our other technology to the extent necessary to remain competitive in the Indonesian telecommunications market. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend on interconnection agreements relating to the use of our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line telephone networks We are dependent on interconnection agreements relating to the use of our competitors’ cellular and fixed-line telephone networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. If any disputes involving such interconnection arrangements arise, whether due to a failure by a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations or for any other reason, the delivery of one or more of our services may be delayed, interrupted or stopped, the quality of our services may be lowered, our subscriber churn rates may increase or our interconnection rates may increase. Any disputes involving our current interconnection agreements, as well as our failure to enter into or renew interconnection agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may become subject to limitations on foreign ownership in the telecommunication services business Presidential Regulation No. 36 of 2010 (“Presidential Regulation 36/2010”) sets out the industries and business fields in which foreign investment is prohibited, restricted or subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions as stipulated by the applicable Governmental authorities (the “Negative List”). The telecommunication industry is one of the industries set out in the Negative List, and foreign investment in the Indonesian telecommunication industry is accordingly subject to applicable restrictions and conditions. The Negative List is implemented by the Capital Investment Coordinating Board (the “BKPM”). Restrictions applicable to the telecommunication industry are dependent upon the type of telecommunication business undertaken. Different limitation thresholds are applicable depending upon whether the business pertains to telecommunication networks or services. The limitation on foreign holdings in companies engaging in the telecommunication network business ranges from 49.0%—65.0%, and the limitation on foreign shareholdings in Indonesian companies engaged in the provision of multimedia services (including data communication such as broadband wireless services), from 49.0%—95.0%. Pursuant to Article 8 of Presidential Regulation 36/2010, the 15 Table of Contents restrictions set forth therein shall not apply to investments that have been approved prior to the effectiveness of Presidential Regulation 36/2010 pursuant to investment approval issued by the BKPM unless such restrictions are more favorable to the investments. Presidential Regulation 36/2010 does not change the limitation of foreign shareholding in our business. On June 22, 2008, Ooredoo Q.S.C (previously known as Qatar Telecom (Qtel) Q.S.C.) (“Ooredoo”), through its subsidiary, Qatar South East Asia Holding S.P.C. purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each of Indonesia Communications Limited (“ICLM”), and Indonesia Communications Pte. Ltd. (“ICLS”) from Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. (“AMH”), a company incorporated in Singapore. Following this acquisition, a change of control occurred in our Company, requiring Ooredoo to conduct a mandatory tender offer. In connection with the tender offer, on December 23, 2008, the Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Indonesia (“BAPEPAM-LK”) issued a letter (i) noting that it had received a letter from the BKPM dated December 19, 2008, pursuant to which the BKPM confirmed that the maximum amount of foreign capital ownership in our Company shall be 65.0%, and that we may still conduct our cellular network operation and local fixed network business and (ii) permitting Ooredoo to conduct the tender offer. Following the issuance of such letter, Ooredoo conducted a mandatory tender offer to acquire up to 1,314,466,775 Series B Shares, representing approximately 24.19% of our total issued and outstanding Series B Shares (including Series B Shares represented by ADSs). As we are a publicly listed company, we believe that the Negative List restrictions do not apply to us. Article 4 of the Negative List stipulates that the provisions of the Negative List do not apply to indirect or portfolio investments conducted through the domestic capital market. To date, to the best of our knowledge, no further clarification has been formally issued by the government specifically to address whether the Negative List applies to us. If the relevant regulatory authorities determine that our foreign ownership still exceeds the Negative List restriction, the regulatory authorities may prohibit us from participating in bidding for or obtaining further licenses or additional spectrum. If this occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. A failure in the continuing operations of our network, certain key systems, gateways to our network or the networks of other network operators could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects We depend to a significant degree on the uninterrupted operation of our network to provide our services. For example, we depend on access to the PSTN for termination and origination of cellular telephone calls to and from fixed-line telephones, and a significant portion of our cellular and international long-distance call traffic is routed through the PSTN. The limited interconnection facilities of the PSTN available to us have adversely affected our business in the past and may adversely affect our business in the future. Because of interconnection capacity constraints, our cellular subscribers have at times experienced blocked calls. We cannot assure you that these interconnection facilities can be increased or maintained at current levels. We also depend on certain technologically sophisticated management information systems and other systems, such as our customer billing system, to enable us to conduct our operations. In addition, we rely to a certain extent on interconnection to the networks of other telecommunications operators to carry calls from our subscribers to the subscribers of fixed-line operators and other cellular operators, both within Indonesia and overseas. Our network, including our information systems, information technology and infrastructure and the networks of other operators with whom our subscribers interconnect, are vulnerable to damage or interruptions in operation from a variety of sources including earthquake, fire, flood, power loss, equipment failure, network software flaws, transmission cable disruption or similar events. For example, our telecommunications control and information technology back-up facilities are highly concentrated within our headquarters and our principal operating and tape back-up storage facilities are located at two sites in Jakarta. Furthermore, in April 2014, our cellular and fixed internet network experienced total black-out for a period of approximately 15 hours due to a 16 Table of Contents misconfiguration in our IP/MPLS backbone. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent network problems such as this from occurring in the future or that we will be able to rectify such problems quickly. Any failure that results in an interruption of our operations or of the provision of any service, whether from operational disruption, natural disaster or otherwise, could damage our ability to attract and retain subscribers, cause significant subscriber dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our failure to react to rapid technological changes could adversely affect our business The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. We may face increasing competition due to technologies currently under development or which may be developed in the future. Future development or application of new or alternative technologies, services or standards could require significant changes to our business model, the development of new products, the provision of additional services and substantial new investments by us. For example, the development of fixed-mobile convergence technology, which allows a call that originates on a cellular handset to bypass a cellular network and instead be carried over a fixed-line telephone network, could adversely affect our business. New products and services may be expensive to develop and may result in the introduction of additional competitors into the marketplace. We cannot accurately predict how emerging and future technological changes will affect our operations or the competitiveness of our services. We cannot assure you that our technologies will not become obsolete, or be subjected to competition from new technologies in the future, or that we will be able to acquire new technologies necessary to compete in changed circumstances on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to react to rapid technological changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Security breaches on network or information technology could have an adverse effect on our business Cyber attacks or other security breaches on network or information technology may cause network failures or service disruptions. Such failures or disruptions of support service to subscribers, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant potential revenue loss and/or loss of market share. In particular, both unsuccessful and successful cyber attacks on companies have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. The costs associated with a major cyber attack on us could include expenses associated with incentives offered to existing customers and business partners to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures, lost revenues from business interruption, litigation and damage to our reputation. Cyber attacks may also result in fraudulent use of our services. Unauthorized users may obtain access to critical systems, financial data, the private data of customers, and services. This risk has increased in recent years as cyber attacks and their perpetrators become more sophisticated. In addition, a high dependency on third parties for system maintenance may also lead to access to critical systems notwithstanding our supervision of the system maintenance. Such fraudulent access to critical revenue generators or billing systems may result in significant revenue losses. Cyber attacks may exploit system vulnerability that hold sensitive information such as private subscriber data that could be disclosed or published without the prior consent of our subscribers. This occurrence could adversely impact customer and investor confidence in us, expose us to possible liability suits from subscribers, damage our reputation and could result to business loss. 17 Table of Contents The Government is the majority shareholder of our major competitors, PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia Tbk (“Telkom”) and PT Telekomunikasi Selular (“Telkomsel”). The Government may give priority to Telkom’s or Telkomsel’s businesses over ours As of December 31, 2013, the Government had a 14.29% equity stake in our Company, including the Series A share, which has special voting rights and veto rights over certain strategic matters under our Articles of Association, including decisions on dissolution, liquidation and bankruptcy, and also permits the Government to nominate one Director to our Board of Directors and one Commissioner to our Board of Commissioners. As of December 31, 2013, the Government also had a 53.90% equity stake in Telkom, which is our foremost competitor in fixed IDD telecommunications services. As of the same date, Telkom owned a 65.00% interest in Telkomsel, one of our two main competitors in the provision of cellular services. The percentage of the Government’s ownership interest in Telkom is significantly greater than its ownership interest in us. We cannot assure you that significant Government policies and plans will support our business or that the Government will treat us equally with Telkom and Telkomsel when implementing future decisions, or when exercising regulatory power over the Indonesian telecommunications industry. If the Government were to give priority to Telkom’s or Telkomsel’s business over ours, our business, financial condition, and results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our controlling shareholders’ interests may differ from those of our other shareholders As of December 31, 2013, Ooredoo Asia Pte. Ltd. (previously known as Qatar Telecom (Qtel Asia) Pte. Ltd.) (“Ooredoo Asia”), owned approximately 65.00% of our issued and outstanding share capital. Ooredoo Asia is currently wholly owned and controlled by Ooredoo, which is majority-owned by the State of Qatar and its affiliated entities. Ooredoo Asia and its controlling shareholder have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and may cause us to take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our or our other shareholders’ best interests, including matters relating to our management and policies. Although nominees of Ooredoo Asia hold positions on our Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors, we cannot assure you that our controlling shareholder will elect directors and commissioners or influence our business in a way that benefits our other shareholders. We rely on key management personnel, and our business may be adversely affected by any inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate our key employees We believe that our current management team contributes significant experience and expertise to the management of our business. The continued success of our business and our ability to execute our business strategies in the future will depend in large part on the efforts of our key personnel. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in the telecommunications industry in Indonesia and this shortage is likely to continue. As a result, competition for certain specialist personnel is intense. In addition, as new market entrants begin or expand operations in Indonesia, certain of our key employees may leave their current positions. Our inability to recruit, train, retain and motivate key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are found liable for price fixing by the Indonesian Anti-Monopoly Committee, we may be subject to substantial liability which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and affect our business, reputation and profitability On November 1, 2007, the Indonesian Supervising Committee for Business Competition (the “KPPU”) issued a decision regarding a preliminary investigation involving us and eight other telecommunication companies based on allegations of price-fixing for SMS services and breach of Article 5 of the Law No. 5 of 1999 on Prohibition Against Monopolistic Practice and Unfair Business Competition (“Anti-monopoly Law”). On June 18, 2008, the KPPU determined that Telkom, Telkomsel, PT XL Axiata Tbk (“XL”), PT Bakrie 18 Table of Contents Telecom Tbk (“Bakrie Telecom”), PT Mobile-8 Telecom Tbk (“Mobile-8,” and subsequent to March 2011, “Smartfren”) and PT Smart Telecom (“Smart Telecom”) had jointly breached Article 5 of the Anti-monopoly Law. Mobile-8 appealed this ruling to the Central Jakarta District Court, where Telkomsel, XL, Telkom, Indosat, PT Hutchison CP Telecommunication (“Hutchison”), Bakrie Telecom, Smart Telecom, PT Natrindo Telepon Seluler (“Natrindo”) were summoned to appear as co-defendants in the hearing, while Telkomsel appealed this ruling to the South Jakarta District Court. Although the KPPU decided in our favor with respect to the allegations of price-fixing of SMS, we cannot assure you that the District Court will affirm the KPPU decision. In 2011, the Supreme Court issued a ruling appointing the Central Jakarta District Court jurisdiction to examine the objections filed in the appeal of the KPPU decision. The District Court will consider objections against the KPPU decision based on a re-examination of the KPPU decision and case files submitted by the KPPU. As of April 24, 2014, we have not received any notification from the District Court with respect to the resolution of this case. If the District Court issues a verdict against us, we could be subjected to the payment of a fine, the amount of which will be subject to the discretion of the District Court, which could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and profitability. We are exposed to interest rate risk Our debt includes bank borrowings to finance our operations. Where appropriate, we seek to minimize our interest rate risk exposure by entering into interest rate swap contracts to swap floating interest rates for fixed interest rates over the duration of certain of our borrowings. However, our hedging policy may not adequately cover our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and this may result in a large interest expense and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to counter-party risk We may enter into various transactions from time to time which will expose us to the credit of our counter-parties and their ability to satisfy the terms of contracts with us. For example, we may enter into swap arrangements, which expose us to the risk that counter-parties may default on their obligations to perform under the relevant contract. In the event a counter-party, including a financial institution, is declared bankrupt or becomes insolvent, this may result in delays in obtaining funds or us having to liquidate our position, potentially leading to losses. We may not be able to successfully manage our foreign currency exchange risk Changes in exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. dollars-denominated debt obligations are lower than those which are denominated in Indonesian rupiah. Furthermore, majority of our capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars and we may also incur additional long-term indebtedness in currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah, including the U.S. dollar, to finance further capital expenditures. While a portion of our operating revenues are also U.S. dollar-denominated or U.S. dollar-linked, a substantial portion of our revenues are denominated in Indonesian rupiah. We hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure principally because our annual U.S. dollar-denominated operating revenues are less than the sum of our U.S. dollar-denominated operating obligations, such as our U.S. dollar-denominated expenses and our U.S. dollar-denominated principal and interest payments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our exchange rate risk successfully in the future or that our business, financial condition or results of operations will not be adversely affected by our exposure to exchange rate risk. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Cellular Services Business Competition from industry incumbents and new market entrants may adversely affect our cellular services business The Indonesian cellular services business is highly competitive. Competition among cellular service providers in Indonesia is based on various factors, including pricing, network quality and coverage, the range of services, features offered and customer service. Our cellular services business competes primarily against Telkomsel and XL. Several other smaller GSM and CDMA operators also provide cellular services in Indonesia, including Hutchison, Bakrie Telecom and PT Smartfren Telecom Tbk. In addition to current cellular service providers, the MOCIT may license additional cellular service providers in the future, and such new entrants may compete with us. Moreover, licenses for additional bandwidth may be granted to any existing cellular service providers. For example, in March 2013, the MOCIT announced that Telkomsel and XL were winners of the tender process for an additional 5 Mhz bandwidth at 2.1 GHz radio frequency for the provision of 3G cellular services using IMT-2000 technology, resulting in each of Telkomsel and XL being licensed for an aggregate of 15 Mhz bandwidth at 2.1 Ghz radio frequency. On March 20, 2014, XL completed its acquisition of PT Axis Telekom Indonesia (“Axis,” previously known as Natrindo). XL’s acquisition provides XL with Axis’ frequency spectrum allocation at the 1800 Mhz bandwidth and Axis’ existing subscribers base. We also participated in the tender process, but were not awarded additional frequency. We are currently licensed to use 10 Mhz bandwidth at 2.1 Ghz radio frequency. We cannot predict with accuracy the effect on our business of the frequency spectrum allocation to our competitors. The competitive landscape in the cellular services business may also be affected by industry consolidation. In March 2010, Smart Telecom and Mobile-8 announced that they entered into a strategic alliance, pursuant to which Mobile-8 (now, “Smartfren”) acquired a significant number of shares in Smart Telecom and both companies agreed to use the “Smartfren” logo and brand. Other cellular service providers may form strategic alliances or otherwise consolidate in the future. In recent years, the continuing competition from industry incumbents and new market entrants in the cellular services market has led to aggressive pricing campaigns by cellular service providers. The decrease in prices for cellular usage also led to an increase in the number of subscribers and in network traffic, resulting in increased network congestion among operators, which has required us to incur additional capital expenditures to continue to expand our network. In addition to traditional competition from other carrier operators, the widespread use of over-the top (“OTT”) service providers, such as Skype™, Viber™ and WhatsApp™ could also affect our competitive position, cellular services business and results of operations. As basic services such as voice and messaging are being replaced by the widespread use of OTT, we face risks relating to a phenomenon in which, with unlimited data plans, users are able to download unlimited amounts of data resulting in a low rate of data monetization. Carrier operators are beginning to implement strategies to combat any loss in revenue, such as by replacing unlimited data plans with quota-based pricing or tiered-based content pricing, with special packages to access specific content. We expect competition in the cellular services business to further intensify. New and existing cellular service providers may offer more attractive product and service packages or new technologies, such as mobile money services, or the convergence of various telecommunication services, resulting in higher churn rates, lower ARPU or a reduction of, or slower growth in, our cellular subscriber base. While we expect mobile money to become an important factor in the growth of cellular services by creating new revenue streams to leverage or maintain ARPU and reduce churn rates, we cannot assure you that our assessments will turn out to be accurate. To provide attractive mobile money services, we will need to collaborate with financial institutions to provide cash-in and cash-out points, as well as with other industry players for merchant sharing and infrastructure sharing, among others. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute strategies to take advantage of opportunities presented by new technologies or that we will be able to provide equally or more attractive service packages as compared to existing or new competitors. 20 Table of Contents Since the market is already highly saturated in most areas of existing coverage, cellular service operators are focusing on expanding coverage into rural areas. Although we plan to expand our coverage into rural areas, there can be no assurance that we will be able to set up the infrastructure support needed for such a coverage expansion. Competition from providers of new technology, together with new entrants, incumbents, almost saturated market and consolidated providers could adversely affect our competitive position, cellular services business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Cellular network congestion and limited spectrum availability could limit our cellular subscriber growth and cause reductions in our cellular service quality We expect to continue to offer promotional plans to attract subscribers and increase usage of our network by our cellular subscribers. We also expect to continue to promote our data services, including our BlackBerry™ and wireless broadband services. As a result, we may experience increased network congestion, which may affect our network performance and damage our reputation with our subscribers. In addition, higher cellular usage in dense urban areas may require us to use radio frequency engineering techniques, including a combination of macro, micro and indoor cellular designs, to maintain cellular network quality despite radio frequency interference and tighter radio frequency re-use patterns. However, if our cellular subscriber base or usage of our voice and data services should grow significantly in high-density areas, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to maintain and improve service quality. Moreover, the recent increase of smartphone applications that rely on data services has resulted in the huge amount of data traffic and cellular network congestion. In order to combat network congestion and improve network quality, we may be required to combine cellular and fixed networks and deploy Wi-Fi hotspots and 3G900. Our Company through IM2 has been actively deploying Wi-fi hotspot technology under the “Indosat SuperWifi” project. We have also been granted the license to use 900 MHz for 3G services, which we expect will improve and expand our 3G coverage to 3G900. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to maintain and improve service quality. To ensure the smooth operation of our upgraded 3G900 network and Wi-Fi access points, we will need to upgrade our backhaul capacity, especially to fiber. “Long Term Evolution” is believed to be a newer technology that can be used to improve network quality, but we are limited by spectrum availability to deploy such services, as well as the higher capital expenditures required to deploy such infrastructure. To support such additional demands on our network, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve our network coverage. Such additional capital expenditures, together with the possible degradation of our cellular services, could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating revenue and ARPU from voice services and fixed wireless services have been decreasing and there is no assurance that we will be successful in extending or launching existing or new products and services to offset such decrease Our operating revenue and ARPU from voice services have been decreasing mainly due to a competitive market for voice services as well as technological changes, especially new technologies in network, devices and applications that have been causing a shift in the demand for basic services (voice services and SMS) in the telecommunications industry. Although demand for cellular data services has been increasing, margins from cellular data services has been lower compared to margins from the provision of basic services due to a competitive market for cellular data services. As part of our strategy, we intend to introduce and continue to develop cellular data products and services for a deeper and wider market segment and to invest heavily on cellular data services because we believe that cellular data services will be a source of future revenue growth. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in capturing the growth in cellular data services and maintaining our revenue and profit margins. 21 Table of Contents Due to competition and the increasing popularity of mobile cellular platforms, our fixed wireless revenues and ARPU have been declining in recent years and we expect that this declining trend will continue. In 2013, we initiated a strategy to migrate from the fixed wireless platform currently utilized on our 800 MHz spectrum allocation to a cellular platform and have submitted an application with the MOCIT to do so. However, there can be no assurance that the MOCIT will approve our application or, in the event that we obtain such approval, that we will be successful in such migration, as competition from other mobile cellular providers is intense. The Government suspension of premium SMS services could adversely affect the revenues from our cellular services business and result in sanctions against us We have derived significant revenue from premium SMS services in previous years. These services include the delivery of music and ringtones, smartphone wallpapers and other graphics, voting in contests and polls and content including horoscopes, Qur’an quotes and news alerts. In 2011, the ITRA asked telecommunications companies to deactivate premium SMS services and give users a notice of the deactivations with the option to resubscribe. These companies were also asked to cease promoting premium SMS services, provide summaries of premium SMS service charges for users, return amounts charged to user accounts for premium SMS services, and report weekly to the ITRA regarding such actions. The ITRA based its action on complaints from consumers that they were charged for services for which they were not aware they had or inadvertently subscribed and from which they had substantial difficulty unsubscribing. Other consumers complained that charges were unclear and difficult to monitor, particularly consumers of prepaid services. On August 6, 2013, the MOCIT promulgated MOCIT Regulation Number 21 of 2013 Regarding The Provision of Content Services on Mobile Cellular Network and Wireless Local Fixed Network with Limited Mobility, as amended by MOCIT Regulation No. 10 of 2014 (“MOCIT Regulation 21/2013”), which among others requires network operators such as our Company and content providers to obtain a license from the DGPIM to provide premium SMS services. Furthermore, pursuant to MOCIT Regulation 21/2013, premium SMS content providers are required to meet stricter requirements that are more difficult to comply with. Accordingly we do not expect revenues from premium SMS services to return to levels seen prior to October 2011. The disruption to our premium SMS services due to the ITRA’s actions in 2011 resulted in a substantial reduction of our revenues from these services. Similar action by the ITRA or the MOCIT in the future may likewise reduce or restrict the growth of our revenues from these services or other related or new products. Furthermore, MOCIT Regulation 21/2013 is a new regulation and its application is uncertain. The ITRA or the MOCIT may take more aggressive action or a strict interpretation of MOCIT Regulation 21/2013 that may lead to disruptions in the delivery of our products or fines or other administrative sanctions. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If any of these risks materialize, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, operational results, financial condition and prospects. Despite expending significant financial resources to increase our cellular subscriber base, the number of our cellular subscribers may increase without a corresponding increase in our operating revenues We have expended significant financial resources to develop and expand our cellular network and add to our cellular subscriber base. However, the uncertain economic situation in Indonesia and increasing prices of primary goods may decrease our cellular subscribers’ purchasing power. Our cellular subscribers increased from approximately 51.7 million as of December 31, 2011 to approximately 58.5 million as of December 31, 2012, to approximately 59.6 million as of December 31, 2013. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our ARPU was Rp28,381, Rp27,384 and Rp27,515, respectively. While we intend to continue to expend significant financial resources to expand our cellular subscriber base and expand our cellular network to support the requirements of such as expanded cellular subscriber base, we cannot assure you that such expenditures will be accompanied by a corresponding increase in our ARPU or operating revenues. Accordingly, our subscriber 22 Table of Contents acquisition costs and the capital expenditures required to expand our network capacity could increase without a corresponding increase in our revenue or profitability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We experience a high churn rate We experience a high churn rate, as is common for Indonesian telecommunication operators providing prepaid cellular services. We believe that our high churn rate is due to the fact that many of our prepaid subscribers own multiple SIM cards from various cellular providers, allowing them to choose the cheapest package available. Our high churn rates may result in loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that our churn rate will not increase in future years as a result of aggressive promotional programs launched by other operators. We depend on the availability of telecommunications towers We are highly dependent on our and others’ telecommunications tower infrastructure to provide GSM, fixed wireless access and 3G network and mobile cellular telecommunications services, as we typically install transmitter and transceiver and receiver antennas and other BTS supporting facilities on such towers. The availability and installation of such telecommunication towers require licenses from the relevant regional authorities. A number of regional authorities have implemented regulations which limit the number and location of telecommunication towers and established requirements for operators to share in the utilization of telecommunications towers. In addition, on March 17, 2008, the MOCIT issued a regulation on the sharing of telecommunications towers. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—The Telecommunications Law—Tower Sharing Obligation.” Under the regulation, the construction of telecommunications towers requires permits from the relevant governmental institution, while the local government determines the placement and location at which telecommunications towers can be constructed. Moreover, a joint regulation promulgated on March 30, 2009 by the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Public Works, the MOCIT and the Head of the BKPM requires a tower construction permit for every tower built and used for telecommunications services, which would demonstrate compliance with certain technical specifications. If a tower owner fails to obtain such a permit, the appropriate regional authorities will be entitled to impose penalties on the tower owner. Moreover, a telecommunications provider which owns telecommunication towers or tower owner is obligated to allow other telecommunication operators to utilize its telecommunication towers (other than the towers used for its main network), without any discrimination. Such regulatory requirements may require us to adjust our telecommunications tower construction and leasing plans, relocate our existing telecommunications towers, allow other operators access to our telecommunications towers and perform other measures which may result in the increase of telecommunications tower construction costs, delays in the construction process and potential service disruption for our subscribers. If we cannot fulfill the regulatory requirements for telecommunications towers or meet our own network capacity needs for telecommunications towers, we may face difficulties in developing and providing cellular GSM, fixed wireless access and 3G telecommunications services. Our dependency on our own or others’ telecommunications tower infrastructure, combined with the burden of installing our telecommunications towers in certain instances, may also adversely affect our competitive advantage relative to other operators. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our network capacity, the performance and quality of our networks and services, our reputation, business, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to maintain and expand our cellular network or conduct our business may be affected by disruptions of supplies and services from our principal suppliers We rely upon a few principal vendors to supply a substantial portion of the equipment we require to maintain and expand our cellular network, including our microwave backbone, and upon other vendors in relation to other supplies necessary to conduct our business. We depend on equipment and other supplies and 23 Table of Contents services from such vendors to maintain and replace key components of our cellular network and to operate our business. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies or services in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or if there are significant increases in the cost of such supplies or services, our ability to maintain and to expand our cellular network and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We depend on our licenses to provide cellular services, and our licenses could be cancelled if we fail to comply with their terms and conditions We rely on licenses issued by the MOCIT for the provision of our cellular services as well as for the utilization of our allocated spectrum frequencies. The MOCIT, with due regard to prevailing laws and regulations, may amend the terms of our licenses at its discretion. Any breach of the terms and conditions of our licenses or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in our licenses being cancelled. Any revocation or unfavorable amendment of the terms of our licenses, or any failure to renew them on comparable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A significant increase in frequency fees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Starting on December 15, 2010, the government changed the basis of computing frequency fees to a new formula based on the bandwidth of allocated spectrum occupied by operators. Previously, we were required to pay frequency fees for 800 MHz, 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands based on the number of radio stations. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we paid frequency fees amounting to Rp1.8 trillion, Rp2.1 trillion and Rp2.2 trillion (US$184.6 million), respectively. As one of the largest holders of spectrum in Indonesia, we expect to continue to pay a large amount of frequency fees going forward. Future increases in frequency fees are expected to mainly be based on increases in the consumer price index and the population of Indonesia. As a result, changes in macroeconomic conditions in Indonesia could result in increases in frequency fees which, if significant, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by BTSs and cellular handsets, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could adversely affect our operations There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from BTSs and from the use of cellular handsets. We cannot assure you that future studies of these health risks will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects which may subject us to legal action from individuals alleging personal injuries or otherwise adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Fixed Data (“MIDI”) Services Business Our MIDI services are facing increasing competition, and we may experience declining margins from such services as such competition intensifies Our MIDI services are facing increased competition from new and established operators, which may have wider customer bases and greater financial resources than us, such as Telkom, with its regional and international reach and developed domestic infrastructure. In addition, operators such as XL, PT First Media Tbk (“First Media”), PT Indonesia Comnet Plus (“Icon+”) and PT NAP Info Lintas Nusa (“Matrix Cable System”), some of which have alliances with foreign telecommunications operators, compete with us in this business segment. Our satellite business also faces increasing competition as new and more powerful satellites are launched by our competitors and as companies acquire exclusive licenses to provide broadcast services in Indonesia. Our Palapa-C2 and Palapa-D satellite transponder capacity agreements generally involve terms of between one and 24 Table of Contents five years, and we estimate the remaining useful life of such satellites to be approximately one and six years, respectively. As additional satellites become operational and our transponder leases expire or are terminated and price competition intensifies, our transponder lessees may utilize other satellites, thereby adversely affecting our operating margins and operating revenues from such services. Our satellites have limited operational life and may be damaged or destroyed during in-orbit operation. The loss or reduced performance of our satellites, whether caused by equipment failure or its license being revoked, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to provide certain services Our Palapa-C2 and Palapa-D satellites have a limited operational life, currently estimated to end in August 2015 and April 2020, respectively. A number of factors affect the operational lives of satellites, including the quality of their construction, the durability of their systems, subsystems and component parts, on-board fuel reserves, accuracy of their launch into orbit, exposure to micrometeorite storms, or other natural events in space, collision with orbital debris, or the manner in which the satellite is monitored and operated. We currently use satellite transponder capacity on our satellites in connection with many aspects of our business, including direct leasing of such capacity and routing for our international long-distance and cellular services. We note, that based on the factors identified above, our Palapa-C2 satellite could fail prior to 2015 and our Palapa-D satellite could fail prior to 2020, and in-orbit repairs would not be feasible with the exception of repairs that may be addressed through ground-based software or operational fixes. Moreover, International Telecommunication Union regulations specify that a designated satellite slot has been allocated for Indonesia, and the Government has the right to determine which party is licensed to use such slot. While we currently hold a license to use the designated satellite slot, in the event our Palapa-D satellite experience technical problems or failure, the Government may determine that we have failed to optimize the existing slot under our license, which may result in the Government withdrawing our license and granting it to one of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain use of the designated satellite orbital slot in a manner deemed satisfactory by the Government. On March 26, 2014, the MOCIT declared that it will not extend our license to utilize the 150.5E.L. satellite orbital slot and that such utilization license will expire as of September 1, 2015. We maintain in-orbit insurance on our Palapa-D satellite on terms and conditions consistent with industry practice. As of December 31, 2013, we had an insurance policy with a total coverage limit of US$102.5 million for total loss of our Palapa-D satellite. If damage or failure renders our satellites unfit for use, we may elect to cease our satellite operations or lease transponder capacity from a third-party provider rather than acquiring a new satellite. The termination of our satellite business could increase operating expenses associated with our provision of other telecommunications services and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Fixed Telecommunications Services Business The entry of additional Indonesian telecommunications operators as providers of international long-distance services could adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins, market share and results of operations Telkom, a well-established Indonesian telecommunications incumbent with significant political and financial resources, obtained a license to provide international long-distance services and launched its commercial service in 2004. As a result of Telkom’s entry into the international long-distance market, we lost market share and experienced other adverse effects relating to our fixed telecommunications services business. By the end of 2006, Telkom had acquired significant market share for IDD services. In addition, in 2009, the Government issued Bakrie Telecom an international long-distance license in an effort to encourage greater competition in the international long-distance services market. The operations of incumbents and the entrance of new operators into the international long-distance market, including the VoIP services provided by such 25 Table of Contents operators, continue to pose a significant competitive threat to us. We cannot assure you that such adverse effects will not continue or that such increased competition will not continue to erode our market share or adversely affect our fixed telecommunications services operating margins and results of operations. We face risks related to the opening of new long distance access codes In an attempt to liberalize DLD services, the Government has issued regulations requiring each provider of DLD services to implement a three-digit access code to be dialed by customers making DLD calls. In 2005, the MOCIT announced that three-digit access codes for DLD calls will be implemented gradually within five years and that it would assign us the “011” DLD access code for five major cities, including Jakarta, and allow us to progressively extend it to all other area codes within five years. Telkom was assigned “017” as its DLD access code. In December 2007, the Government issued new regulations opening DLD access codes in the first city in Balikpapan in April 2008. Following the implementation, Balikpapan residents are able to choose from options “0,” “011” or “017” in connecting their long distance calls. In April 2008, we and Telkom agreed to open DLD access from our respective subscribers in Balikpapan. Whether the opening of the DLD access code will be implemented in other cities will be based on a study by the ITRA. The implementation of any new DLD access codes can potentially increase competition by offering our subscribers more options for DLD services. In addition, the opening of new DLD access codes is expected to result in increased competition and less cooperation among industry incumbents, which may result in reduced margins and operating revenue, among other things, all of which may have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that our access codes will remain intact or be successful in increasing our revenues from DLD services. 