RISK FACTORS The principal risks facing our business are included below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. Current and future economic, political and market forces, and dislocations beyond our control may adversely affect demand for our products and services. Demand for our products and services may be impacted by factors beyond our control, such as the economic environment in the United States, Europe and other major economies, political developments, acts of terrorism, civil unrest or public health concerns. Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity by our customers, result in a reduction of demand for our products and services and adversely affect suppliers and third parties to whom we have outsourced business activities. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under current laws in some jurisdictions, which may adversely affect our results and our ability to grow. Our products and services include and utilise intellectual property. We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in this intellectual property. There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which may impact demand for and pricing of our products and service. Copyright laws are subject to new legislative initiatives and increased judicial scrutiny in several jurisdictions in which we operate. The resulting uncertainty creates additional challenges for us in protecting our proprietary rights in content delivered through the internet and electronic platforms. Moreover, whilst non-copyrightable databases are protected in many circumstances by law in the European Union, there is no equivalent legal protection in other jurisdictions, including, the United States. Changes in provision of third-party information to us could adversely affect our businesses. A number of our businesses rely extensively upon content and data from external sources. Data is obtained from public records, governmental authorities, customers and other information companies, including competitors. The disruption or loss of data sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them could adversely affect our products and services. Our scientific, technical and medical primary research products could be adversely affected by changes in the market, or by changes in levels of government funding or spending by academic institutions. Our scientific, technical and medical (STM) primary research content, like that of most of our competitors, is sold largely on a paid subscription basis. There is continued debate in government, academic and library communities, which are the principal customers for our STM content, regarding to what extent such content should be funded instead through fees charged to authors or authors’ funders and/or made freely available in some form after a period following publication. Some of these methods, if widely adopted, could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscriptions. Furthermore, the principal customers for the information products and services offered by our STM publishing businesses are academic institutions, which fund purchases of these products and services from limited budgets that may be sensitive to changes in private and governmental sources of funding. Accordingly, any decreases in budgets of academic institutions or changes in the spending patterns of academic institutions could negatively impact our business and revenues. We cannot assure you that there will be continued demand for our products and services, or that our substantial investment in electronic product and platform initiatives will produce satisfactory, long term returns. Our businesses are dependent on the continued acceptance by our customers of our products and services and the value placed on them. Failure to meet evolving customer needs could impact demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue. We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, which continue to change in response to technological innovations, legislative and regulatory changes, the entrance of new competitors, and other factors. In particular, the means of delivering our products and services, and the products and services themselves, may be subject to rapid technological, legislative and other changes, and we cannot predict whether such changes or other factors will make some of our products wholly or partially obsolete or less profitable. Failure to anticipate market trends could impact the competitiveness of our products and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue and profit. 7 Table of Contents We may not realise all of the future anticipated benefits of acquisitions. We regularly make small acquisitions to strengthen our portfolio. If we are unable to generate the anticipated benefits such as revenue growth and/or cost savings associated with these acquisitions this could adversely affect return on invested capital and financial condition. Breaches of our data security systems, other unauthorized access to our databases, changes in legislation or a significant failure or interruption of our electronic delivery platforms, networks or distribution systems could adversely affect our businesses and operations. Our businesses maintain online databases and information, including public records and other personal information and depend on the availability of electronic platforms and networks, primarily the internet, for delivery of our products and services. If we experience attacks on, breaches of or significant failure or disruption in the operation of our platforms and systems, it could adversely impact our business. Additionally, we are subject to numerous and evolving laws and regulations designed to protect certain information. Our cybersecurity measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems, including denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, phishing attacks, security breaches or other attacks and disruptions that may jeopardize the security of the information we maintain or may disrupt our systems. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures could result in unauthorized access to our systems, misappropriation of information or data, deletion or modification of stored information or other interruption to our business operations. As techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers, we may be unable to anticipate, or implement adequate measures to protect against, these attacks. Any such breaches of our data security systems, disruption involving our platforms or networks, electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business or failure to comply with applicable legislation or regulatory or contractual requirements could adversely affect our financial performance, damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss, litigation and increased regulation. Our businesses may be adversely affected by the failure of third parties to whom we have outsourced business activities. Our organisational and operational structures are dependent on outsourced and offshored functions. Poor performance or failure of third parties to whom we have outsourced activities could adversely affect our business performance, reputation and financial condition. We may be unable to implement and execute our strategic and business plans if we cannot maintain high-quality management. The implementation and execution of our strategies and business plans depend on our ability to recruit, motivate and retain skilled employees and management. We compete globally and across business sectors for talented management and skilled individuals, particularly those with technology and data analytics capabilities. Any failure to recruit, motivate or retain such people could adversely affect our business performance. Changes in the market values of defined benefit pension scheme assets and in the assumptions used to value defined benefit pension scheme obligations may adversely affect our businesses. We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, including local versions of the defined benefit type in the UK and the United States. The assets and obligations associated with those pension schemes are sensitive to changes in the market values of assets and the market-related assumptions used to value scheme liabilities. Adverse changes to asset values, discount rates, inflation or other factors could increase future pension costs and funding requirements. Changes in tax laws or uncertainty over their application and interpretation may adversely affect our reported results. Our businesses operate globally and our earnings are subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing rates. In October 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the “OECD”) issued its reports on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, which suggest a range of new approaches that national governments might adopt when taxing the activities of multinational enterprises. As a result of the OECD project and other international initiatives, tax laws that currently apply to our businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently by them, and these changes could adversely affect our results. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our results. The RELX Group consolidated financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling and are subject to movements in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of businesses whose operational currencies are other than sterling. The United States is our most important market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange 8 Table of Contents rate could significantly affect our reported results. We also generate revenues in a range of other currencies, including the euro and the Japanese yen, which could be affected by fluctuations in their respective exchange rates versus the pound sterling. The relative movements between the exchange rates in the currencies in which we incur costs and the currencies in which we generate revenues can significantly affect our results of operations. Market conditions and credit ratings may affect the availability and cost of funding. Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the availability and terms of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation. In addition, our outstanding debt instruments are, and any of our future debt instruments may be, publicly rated by independent rating agencies. Our borrowing costs and access to capital may be adversely affected if the credit ratings assigned to our debt are downgraded. Breaches of generally accepted ethical business standards or applicable statutes concerning bribery could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. As a leading provider of professional information solutions to the STM, risk & business analytics, legal, and exhibitions markets we, our employees and major suppliers seek to adhere to high standards of independence and ethical conduct, including those related to anti-bribery and principled business conduct. A breach of generally accepted ethical business standards or applicable statutes concerning bribery could adversely affect our business performance, reputation and financial condition. Failure to manage our environmental impact could adversely affect our businesses and reputation. Our businesses have an impact on the environment, principally through the use of energy and water, waste generation and, in our supply chain, through paper use and print and production technologies. Failure to manage our environmental impact could adversely affect our reputation. Our business, operations and reputation could be adversely affected by a failure to comply with FTC Settlement Orders. Through our Risk & Business Analytics business in the United States, we are party to two consent orders and two subsequent related supplemental orders (the “FTC Settlement Orders”) embodying settlements with the US Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) that resolved FTC investigations into our compliance with federal laws governing consumer information security and related issues, including certain fraudulent data access incidents. We also entered into an Assurance of Voluntary Compliance and Discontinuance (the “AVC”) with the Attorneys General of 43 states and the District of Columbia in connection with one such FTC investigation. The FTC Settlement Orders and the AVC require us to institute and maintain information security, verification, credentialing, audit and compliance, and reporting and record retention programmes and to obtain an assessment from a qualified, independent third party every two years for twenty years (with the FTC having the right to extend such twenty-year period by up to two additional biennial assessment periods) to ensure that our performance under these information security programmes complies with the FTC Settlement Orders. Failure to comply with the FTC Settlement Orders and the AVC could result in civil penalties and adversely affect our business, operations and reputation. Changes in regulation of information collection and use could adversely affect our business. Legal regulation relating to internet communications, privacy and data protection, e-commerce, direct marketing, credit scoring and digital advertising, information governance and use of public records is becoming more prevalent worldwide. Existing and proposed legislation and regulations, including changes in the manner in which such legislation and regulations are interpreted by courts and regulators may impose limits on our collection and use of certain kinds of information about individuals and our ability to communicate such information effectively with our customers, and we are unable to predict the extent to which any such laws or interpretation changes might adversely affect our business. Our impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets incorporates various assumptions which are highly judgmental. If these assumptions are not realised, we may be required to recognise a charge in the future for impairment. As at December 31, 2015, goodwill on the consolidated statement of financial position amounted to £5,231 million and intangible assets with an indefinite life amounted to £103 million. We conduct an impairment test at least annually, which involves a comparison of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets by cash generating unit with estimated values in use based on latest management cash flow projections. The assumptions used in the estimation of value in use are, by their very nature, highly judgmental, and include profit growth of the business over a five year forecast period, the long term growth rate of the business thereafter, and related discount rates. There is no guarantee that our businesses will be able to achieve the forecasted results which have been included in the impairment tests and impairment charges may be required in future periods if we are unable to meet these assumptions. 9 Table of Contents 