Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results and stock price will be adversely affected from our new subscription-based licensing offering and will be further adversely affected if customers do not react favorably to our new subscription-based licensing offering. In July, 2009, we introduced a new license offering for our aspenONE software suite in which customers are granted access to specific sets of our software products. Access to the aspenONE suite is calculated and priced on the basis of exchangeable units of measurement, or "tokens." Maintenance and updates are included in the license, as well as access to any new software products added to the aspenONE suite during the license term. Previously, we typically recognized the net present value of license fees over the license term as revenue in the period in which the license agreement was signed and the software was delivered to the customer. We expect our new aspenONE licensing offering to result in revenue being recognized on a subscription basis over the term of multi-year contracts. Although we expect the new licensing offering to result in increased customer usage and higher revenues over time, we are not able to predict the rate of adoption of the new license offering, and therefore cannot predict the timing or amount of future revenues or level of profitability. As referenced in our current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 9, 2009, we expect that this change from predominantly up-front revenue recognition will result in our reporting significantly lower revenue and large operating losses in the near-term. The announcement of such losses as well as the lack of visibility into future operating results may have a significant adverse effect on our stock price. Our operating results depend on customers in or serving the energy, chemicals, pharmaceutical, and engineering and construction industries, which are highly cyclical, and our operating results may suffer if these industries continue to experience an economic downturn. Our operating results depend on companies in or serving the energy, chemicals, engineering and construction and pharmaceutical industries. Accordingly, our future success depends upon the continued demand for manufacturing optimization software and services by companies in these process manufacturing industries. These industries are highly cyclical and highly reactive to the price of oil, as well as general economic conditions. At least one of our customers has filed for bankruptcy protection, which may affect associated cash receipts and the extent to which revenue from this customer may be recognized. There is no assurance that other customers may not also seek bankruptcy or other similar relief from creditors, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the economy and global economic and political uncertainty have previously caused delays and reductions in IT spending by our customers and a consequent deterioration of the markets for our products and services, particularly our manufacturing/supply chain product suites. If adverse economic conditions persist, we would likely experience reductions, delays and postponements of customer purchases that will negatively impact our operating results. In addition, in the past, worldwide economic downturns and pricing pressures experienced by energy, chemical, and other process industries have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and reorganizations have caused delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by many of these companies. These delays and reductions have reduced demand for products and services like ours. A recurrence of these industry patterns, including any recurrence that may occur in connection with current global economic events, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in these industries, could harm our operating results in the future. Securities litigation based on our restatement of our consolidated financial statements due to our prior software accounting practices may subject us to substantial damages and expenses, may require significant management time, and may damage our reputation. In March 2006, we settled class action litigation, including related derivative claims, arising out of our originally filed consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2000 through 2004, the accounting for which we restated in March 2005. Members of the class who opted out of the settlement (representing 1,457,969 shares of common stock, or less than 1% of the shares putatively purchased during the class action period) brought their own state or federal law claims against us, referred to as "opt-out" claims. Separate actions were filed on behalf of the holders of approximately 1.1 million shares who either opted out of the class action settlement or were not covered by that settlement. One of these actions was settled. The claims in the remaining actions (described below) include claims against us and one or more of our former officers alleging securities and common law fraud, breach of contract, statutory treble damages, deceptive practices and/or rescissory damages liability, based on the restated results of one or more fiscal periods included in our restated consolidated financial statements referenced in the class action. •Blecker, et al. v. Aspen Technology, Inc., et al., filed on June 5, 2006 in the Business Litigation Session of the Massachusetts Superior Court for Suffolk County and docketed as Civ. A. No. 06-2357-BLS1 in that court, is an opt-out claim asserted by persons who received 248,411 shares of our common stock in an acquisition. Fact discovery in this action closed on July 18, 2008, and a non-jury trial began on November 3, 2009. On October 17, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a new complaint in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, captioned Herbert G. and Eunice E. Blecker v. Aspen Technology, Inc. et al., Civ. A. No. 08-4625-BLS1 (Blecker II). The sole claim in Blecker II is based on the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act. We served a motion to dismiss on December 3, 2008 which the plaintiffs have opposed. The motion was argued before the court on March 23, 2009 and is pending. •380544 Canada, Inc., et al. v. Aspen Technology, Inc., et al., filed on February 15, 2007 in the federal district court for the Southern District of New York and docketed as Civ. A. No. 1:07-cv-01204-JFK in that court, is a claim asserted by persons who purchased 566,665 shares of our common stock in a private placement. Certain motions to dismiss filed by other defendants were resolved on May 5, 2009, and discovery is scheduled to conclude on February 12, 2010. The remaining claims in the Blecker and 380544 Canada actions referenced above are for damages totaling at least $20 million, not including claims for treble damages and attorneys' fees. We plan to defend these actions vigorously. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of these opt-out claims 17 Table of Contents or the likelihood of the filing of additional opt-out claims, and these claims may result in judgments against us for significant damages. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation has resulted in the past, and may continue to result in the future, in significant legal expenses and may require significant attention and resources of management, all of which could result in losses and damages that have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to advance legal fees (subject to undertakings of repayment if required) and may be required to indemnify certain of our current or former directors and officers in connection with civil, criminal or regulatory proceedings or actions, and such indemnification commitments may be costly. Our executive and organization liability insurance policies provide only limited liability protection relating to such actions against us and certain of our officers and directors, and will likely not cover the costs of director and officer indemnification or other liabilities incurred by us; accordingly, if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement thereof, our financial condition could be materially harmed. Also, increased premiums could materially harm our financial results in future periods. Our inability to obtain coverage due to prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and directors and expose us to potentially self-funding any potential future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by such liability insurance. The modification of the consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission and the related settlement with Honeywell International, Inc. could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In December 2004, we entered into a consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) with respect to a civil administrative complaint filed by the FTC in August 2003 alleging that our acquisition of Hyprotech Ltd. and related subsidiaries of AEA Technology plc (Hyprotech) in May 2002 was anticompetitive in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and Section 7 of the Clayton Act. In connection with the consent decree, we entered into an agreement with Honeywell International, Inc. (Honeywell), on October 6, 2004 (Honeywell Agreement), pursuant to which we transferred our operator training business and our rights to the intellectual property of various legacy Hyprotech products. We are subject to ongoing compliance obligations under the FTC consent decree. We responded to requests by the Staff of the FTC beginning in 2006 for information relating to the Staff's investigation of whether we have complied with the consent decree. In addition, the FTC voted to recommend to the Consumer Litigation Division (Division) of the U.S. Department of Justice that the Division commence litigation against us relating to our alleged failure to comply with certain aspects of the decree. Although we believe that we complied with the consent decree and that the assertions by the FTC Staff were without merit, we engaged in settlement discussions with the FTC Staff regarding this matter. Following such discussions, on July 6, 2009, we announced that the FTC closed the investigation relating to the alleged violations of the decree, and issued an order modifying the consent decree. Following a thirty-day period for public comment on the modification to the original decree, the modified order became final on August 20, 2009. The modification to the 2004 consent decree requires that we continue to provide the ability for users to save input variable case data for Aspen HYSYS and Aspen HYSYS Dynamics software in a standard "portable" format, which will make it easier for users to transfer case data from later versions of the products to earlier versions. AspenTech will also provide documentation to Honeywell of the Aspen HYSYS and Aspen HYSYS Dynamics input variables, as well as documentation of the covered heat exchange products. These requirements will apply to all existing and future versions of the covered products up to 2014. In addition, in connection with the settlement of the related litigation with Honeywell, AspenTech has provided to Honeywell a license to modify and distribute (in object code form) certain versions of AspenTech's flare system analyzer software. There is no assurance that the actions required by the FTC's modified order and related settlement with Honeywell will not provide Honeywell with additional competitive advantages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and our failure to remedy the material weaknesses identified as of June 30, 2009 could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Our management identified four material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses identified by management as of June 30, 2009 consisted of: •Inadequate and ineffective monitoring controls; •Inadequate and ineffective controls over the periodic financial close process; •Inadequate and ineffective controls over income tax accounting and disclosure; and •Inadequate and ineffective controls over the recognition of revenue. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded as of June 30, 2009 that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework (September 1992). We have begun to implement and continue to implement remedial measures designed to address these material weaknesses. If these remedial measures are insufficient to address these material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, we could be required to restate our prior period financial results, our operating results may be harmed, we may be subject to class action litigation, and if we regain listing on a public exchange, our common stock could be delisted from that exchange. Any failure to address the identified material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses in our internal control could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required to be included in our annual reports on Form 10-K. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We can give no assurance that the measures we plan to take in the future will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses or additional restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, in the future those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. If in the future we are not current in our SEC fillings, we will face several adverse consequences. If we are unable to remain current in our financial filings, investors in our securities will not have information regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. In addition, we would not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act), covering a public offering of securities declared effective by the SEC, and we would not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements or pursuant to certain "private placement" rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not 19 Table of Contents qualifying as "accredited investors." The lack of an effective registration statement would also result in our employees being unable to exercise vested options, which could affect our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We also would not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of twelve months after the time we became current in our filings. These restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds should we desire to do so and may adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to remain current in our filings, and we are not able to obtain waivers under our financing arrangements, it might become necessary to repay certain borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market and transferred to the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service, which may, among other things, reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. As a result of our inability to timely file the Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007, NASDAQ issued a Staff Determination to us that, in the absence of a request for a hearing, would have resulted in suspension of trading of our common stock, and filing of a Form 25-NSE with the SEC to remove our securities from listing and registration on The NASDAQ Stock Market. NASDAQ subsequently issued an Additional Staff Determination citing our inability to timely file our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007 as an additional basis for delisting our securities. An oral hearing was held at our request on November 15, 2007. At the hearing, we requested an extension of time to cure our SEC filing deficiency. The NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, or the Panel, determined on January 7, 2008 to grant our request for continued listing, subject to certain conditions, including filing our Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007 and our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007, by January 18, 2008. On January 28, 2008, the Panel granted our request for an extension for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market through February 8, 2008. On February 14, 2008, we received a letter advising us that the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel had determined to delist our shares from The NASDAQ Stock Market, and trading of our shares was suspended effective at the open of business on February 19, 2008. Our common stock has been quoted on the Pink OTC Markets Inc. electronic quotation service beginning on February 19, 2008. There is no assurance that we will regain listing of our common stock on a public exchange. If we regain listing and thereafter fail to keep current in our SEC filings or to comply with the applicable continued listing requirements, our common stock might be and subsequently would trade in the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service, or the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock in the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock in the Pink Sheets would materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at all. Stocks that trade in the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading in the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or "blue sky" laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. If we regain listing and are delisted in the future and transferred to the Pink Sheets, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. Our international operations are complex and if we fail to manage those operations effectively, the growth of our business would be limited and our operating results would be adversely affected. As of October 18, 2009, we had 26 offices in 21 countries. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force located throughout the world. In the event that we are unable to adequately staff and maintain our foreign operations, we could face difficulties managing our international operations. 20 Table of Contents We also rely, to a lesser extent, on distributors and resellers to sell our products and market our services internationally, and our inability to manage and maintain those relationships would limit our ability to generate revenue outside the U.S. Effective October 6, 2009, we terminated a reseller outside the U.S. See our risk factor below titled "Our revenue growth, operating results, financial condition or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by recent events in connection with reseller relationships." The complexities of our operations also require us to make significant expenditures to ensure that our operations are compliant with regulatory requirements in numerous foreign jurisdictions. To the extent we are unable to manage the various risks associated with our complex international operations effectively, the growth and profitability of our business may be adversely affected. Our business may suffer if we fail to address challenges associated with transacting business internationally. Customers outside the U.S. accounted for a material amount of our total revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008. We anticipate that revenues from customers outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to additional risks, including: •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers; •political and economic instability and possible nationalization of property by governments without compensation to the owners; •less effective protection of intellectual property; •difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into foreign languages; •difficulties and delays in negotiating software licenses compliant with accounting revenue recognition requirements in the U.S.; •difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; and •adverse tax consequences. In addition, the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results cannot be accurately predicted. From time to time we have engaged in economic hedging of a significant portion of installment contracts denominated in foreign currencies. In fiscal 2009 we stopped engaging in economic hedging; however, we may resume this practice in the future. Any hedging policies we implement may not be successful, and the cost of these hedging techniques may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Competition from software offered by current competitors and new market entrants, as well as from internally developed solutions, could adversely affect our ability to sell our software products and related services and could result in pressure to price our products in a manner that reduces our margins. Our markets in general are highly competitive and differ among our three principal product areas: engineering, manufacturing, and supply chain management. Our engineering software competes with products of businesses such as ABB Ltd, Chemstations, Inc., Honeywell International, Inc., Invensys plc, KBC Advanced Technologies plc, and Shell Global Solutions International BV. Our manufacturing software competes with products of companies such as ABB Ltd., Honeywell International, Inc., Invensys plc, OSIsoft, Inc., Rockwell Automation, Inc., Siemens AG and SAP. Our supply chain management software competes with products of companies such as i2 Technologies, Inc., Infor Global Solutions, Manugistics, Inc. (a subsidiary of JDA Software Group, Inc.), Oracle Corporation, and SAP. In addition, we face competition in all areas of our business from large companies in the process industries that have internally developed their own proprietary software solutions. 21 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services, or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. We believe they also have adopted and may continue to pursue more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, many of our competitors have established, and may in the future continue to establish, cooperative relationships with third parties to improve their product offerings and to increase the availability of their products in the marketplace. Competitors with greater financial resources may make strategic acquisitions to increase their ability to gain market share or improve the quality or marketability of their products. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software products and related services on terms favorable to us. Businesses may continue to enhance their internally developed solutions, rather than investing in commercial software such as ours. Our current and potential commercial competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. In addition, if these competitors develop products with similar or superior functionality to our products, we may need to decrease the prices for our products in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our operating results will be negatively affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to develop new software products or enhance existing products and services, we will be unable to implement our product strategy successfully and our business could be seriously harmed. Enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide greater levels of functionality and broader product offerings. Moreover, competitors continue to make rapid technological advances in computer hardware and software technology and frequently introduce new products, services and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our current product line and develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and the technological developments of our competitors. Our business and operating results could suffer if we cannot successfully respond to the technological advances of competitors, or if our new products or product enhancements and services do not achieve market acceptance. Under our business plan, we are implementing a product strategy that unifies our software solutions under the aspenONE brand with differentiated aspenONE vertical solutions targeted at specific process industry segments. We cannot assure you that our product strategy will result in products that will meet market needs and achieve significant market acceptance. Defects or errors in our software products could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have from time to time found defects in our products and we may discover additional defects in the future. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before releasing products. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products have been implemented. We have in the past issued, and 22 Table of Contents may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our products to remedy defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in: •lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; •delays in payment to us by customers; •product returns; •injury to our reputation; •diversion of our resources; •legal claims, including product liability claims, against us; •increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions; and •increased insurance costs. Defects and errors in our software products could result in an increase in service and warranty costs or claims for substantial damages against us. We may be subject to significant expenses and damages because of liability claims related to our products and services. We may be subject to significant expenses and damages because of liability claims related to our products and services. The sale and implementation of certain of our software products and services, particularly in the areas of advanced process control, supply chain and optimization, entail the risk of product liability claims and associated damages. Our software products and services are often integrated with our customers' networks and software applications and are used in the design, operation and management of manufacturing and supply chain processes at large facilities, often for mission critical applications. Any errors, defects, performance problems or other failure of our software could result in significant liability to us for damages or for violations of environmental, safety and other laws and regulations. We are currently defending a customer claim of approximately $5 million that certain of our software products and implementation services failed to meet customer expectations. In addition, our software products and implementation services could continue to give rise to warranty and other claims. We are unable to determine whether resolution of any of these matters will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations, or, in many cases, reasonably estimate the amount of the loss, if any, that may result from the resolution of these matters. Our agreements with our customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions in our agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, foreign, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. A substantial product liability judgment against us could materially and adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. Even if our software is not at fault, a product liability claim brought against us could be time-consuming, costly to defend and harmful to our operations. Implementation of some of our products can be difficult and time-consuming, and customers may be unable to implement those products successfully or otherwise achieve the benefits attributable to them. Some scheduling applications and integrated supply chain products must integrate with the existing computer systems and software programs of our customers. This can be complex, time-consuming and expensive. As a result, some customers may have difficulty in implementing those products or be unable to implement them successfully or otherwise achieve the benefits attributable to them. Delayed 23 Table of Contents or ineffective implementation of those software products or related services may limit our ability to expand our revenues and may result in customer dissatisfaction, harm to our reputation and customer unwillingness to pay the fees associated with these products. We may suffer losses on fixed-price professional service engagements. We undertake a portion of our professional service engagements on a fixed-price basis. Under these types of engagements, we bear the risk of cost overruns and inflation, and in the past we have experienced cost overruns, which on occasion have been significant. Should the number of our fixed-price engagements increase in the future, we may experience additional cost overruns which could have a more pronounced impact on our operating results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share. We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, license and confidentiality agreements, and software security measures to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered or have applied to register several of our significant trademarks in the U.S. and in certain other countries. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and customers, and historically have restricted access to our software products' source codes, which we regard as proprietary information. In a few cases, we have provided copies of the source code for some of our products to customers solely for the purpose of special product customization and have deposited copies of the source code for some of our products in third-party escrow accounts as security for ongoing service and license obligations. In these cases, we rely on non-disclosure and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Any misappropriation of our technology or development of competitive technologies could harm our business and could force us to incur substantial costs in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. The laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Third-party claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others may be costly to defend or settle and could damage our business. We cannot be certain that our software and services do not infringe issued patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry, and we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees concerning their use of our software products and integration technologies and services. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to market our software without incurring liability to third parties, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. Because our software is integrated with our customers' networks and business processes, as well as other software applications, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us, as well as our customers and other software suppliers, if the cause of the alleged infringement cannot easily be determined. Such claims may be with or without merit. 24 Table of Contents Claims of alleged infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business and may discourage potential customers from doing business with us on acceptable terms, if at all. Defending against claims of infringement may be time-consuming and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including our management's attention to our business. Furthermore, a party making an infringement claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our software or require that we re-engineer some or all of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter costly royalty or license agreements. We may be unable, however, to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed significantly if any of these events occurred, and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Furthermore, former employers of our current and future employees may assert that our employees have improperly disclosed confidential or proprietary information to us. In addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage may not apply to, and likely would not protect us from, liability that may be imposed under any of the types of claims described above. Because some of our software products incorporate or otherwise require technology licensed from, or provided by, third parties, the loss of our right to use that third-party technology or defects in that technology could harm our business. Some of our software products incorporate or otherwise require technology that is licensed from, or otherwise provided by, third parties. There is no assurance that the suppliers of such software will continue to license to us or that they will renew or not terminate the license contracts. Any interruption in the supply or support of any such third-party software could materially adversely affect our sales, unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by the third-party software. In addition, we depend on these third parties to deliver and support reliable products, enhance our current software, develop new software on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The failure of these third parties to meet these criteria could materially harm our business. If we are not successful in attracting, integrating and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to establish and maintain a position of technology leadership in the highly competitive software market depends in large part upon our ability to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified managerial, sales, technical and accounting personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the software industry is intense. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, integrate and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our revenue growth, operating results, financial condition or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by recent events in connection with reseller relationships. Prior to October 6, 2009, we had an exclusive reseller relationship covering certain countries in the Middle East with a reseller known as, AspenTech Middle East W.L.L., a Kuwait corporation (ATME or the reseller). Effective October 6, 2009, we terminated the reseller relationship for material breach by the reseller based on certain actions of the reseller. On November 2, 2009 the reseller filed a Claim Form (Arbitration) in the High Court of Justice, Queen's Bench Division, Commercial Court, London, 25 Table of Contents England, reference 2009 Folio 1436 in the matter of an intended arbitration between the reseller and us, seeking an injunction against certain activities by us in the alleged former territory of the reseller. We believe that the reseller's claims are without merit, inasmuch as our termination of the relationship was based on actions by the reseller constituting material breach as defined in the reseller agreement document, and that the reseller is not entitled to such an injunction. We therefore intend to defend the claims vigorously. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of this proceeding or the likelihood of the filing of additional proceedings such as a full arbitration, and these claims may result in judgments against us for significant damages and a possible injunction that would threaten our ability to do business directly in certain countries in the Middle East. In addition, regardless of the outcome, such claims may result in significant legal expenses and may require significant attention and resources of management, all of which could result in losses and damages that have a material adverse effect on our business. The reseller agreement document relating to the terminated relationship contained a provision whereby we could be liable for a termination fee if the agreement were terminated other than for material breach. This fee would be calculated based on a formula contained in the reseller agreement that we believe was originally developed based on certain assumptions about the future financial performance of the reseller, as well as the reseller's actual financial performance. Based on the formula and the financial information provided to us by the reseller, which we have not had the opportunity to verify independently, a recent calculation associated with termination other than for material breach based on the formula would result in a termination fee of between $60 million and $77 million. Under the terminated reseller agreement document, no termination fee is owed on termination for material breach. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may experience substantial price and volume fluctuations. The equity markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the high technology sector, and those fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, factors such as changes to our business model, our financial performance, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, as well as market conditions in the computer software or hardware industries, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial liability and costs and divert management's attention and resources. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our business plan. We expect that our current cash balances, future cash flows from our operations, and continued ability to sell installment receivable contracts will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We may need to obtain additional financing thereafter or earlier, however, if our current plans and projections prove to be inaccurate or our expected cash flows prove to be insufficient to fund our operations because of lower-than-expected revenues, fewer sales of installment receivable contracts, unanticipated expenses or other unforeseen difficulties. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, the quality of our installment receivable contracts, and the availability of capital in the credit markets. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of any financing unattractive. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on 26 Table of Contents acceptable terms, we may have to forego strategic acquisitions or investments, reduce or defer our development activities or delay our introduction of new products and services. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute the existing shareholder percentage ownership of our common stock. Furthermore, any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to our common stock. Capital raised through debt financings could require us to make periodic interest payments and could impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Our corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our charter and our by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and •the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could: •have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial; •discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions; and •limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Sales of shares of common stock issued upon the conversion of our previously outstanding Series D-1 preferred stock may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. Private equity funds managed by Advent International Corporation have the right to require that we register under the Securities Act the shares of common stock that were issued upon the conversion of our previously outstanding Series D-1 preferred stock and upon the exercise of certain previously outstanding warrants. In addition, these funds could sell certain of such shares without registration. In May 2006, we received a demand letter from such funds requesting the registration of all of the shares of common stock covered by those registration rights, for sale in an underwritten public offering. Pursuant to this request, in April 2007 we filed a registration statement for a public offering of 18,000,000 shares of common stock held by such funds. The registration statement also covered 2,700,000 shares that would be subject to an option to be granted to the underwriters by such funds solely to cover overallotments. On July 30, 2008, we applied to withdraw this registration statement and requested the SEC's consent thereto. Any sale of common stock into the public market could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents There may be an increase in the sales volume of our common stock when we are current in our Exchange Act filings, and any sales of shares into the public market may cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. As previously disclosed, on December 6, 2007, our board of directors approved the extension of the exercise periods of certain outstanding stock options that would otherwise likely expire prior to our becoming current in our Exchange Act filings. When we were not current in those filings, we were unable, under applicable securities laws, to issue shares pursuant to exercises of options. Sales of shares upon exercise of those and other options, or sales of shares subsequent to lapse of forfeiture restrictions on restricted stock units, may cause increased selling pressure in the market for our stock, which has generally traded at volume levels substantially less than those prior to the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market on February 19, 2008. Any sales of shares into the public market may cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 