Item 1A. Risk Factors INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE PURCHASING OUR COMMON STOCK. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING OUR COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD LIKELY SUFFER. IN THAT CASE, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD FALL, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF THE MONEY YOU PAID TO BUY OUR COMMON STOCK. Risks Related to our Business Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues, operating results and cash flow may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Our revenues, operating results and cash flow have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: · demand for our products and services; · our customers’ purchasing patterns; · the length of our sales cycle; · changes in the mix of our license revenues and service revenues; · the timing of introductions of new solutions and enhancements by us and our competitors; · seasonal weakness in the first quarter of each fiscal year (which for us is the quarter ended September 30), primarily caused by a slowdown in business in some of our international markets; · the timing of our investments in new product development; · the mix of domestic and international sales; · changes in our operating expenses; and · fluctuating economic conditions, particularly as they affect companies in the oil and gas, chemicals, petrochemicals and petroleum industries. We ship software products within a short period after receipt of an order and typically do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders for software products. Consequently, revenues from software licenses in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Historically, a majority of each quarter’s revenues from software licenses has come from license agreements that have been entered into in the final weeks of the quarter. Therefore, even a short delay in the consummation of an agreement may cause our revenues to fall below expectations of public market analysts and investors for that quarter. 15 Since our expense levels are based in part on anticipated revenues, we may be unable to adjust our spending quickly enough to compensate for any revenue shortfall and any revenue shortfall would likely have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. We expect that the factors listed above will continue to affect our operating results for the foreseeable future. Because of the factors listed above, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Term license renewal negotiations may be difficult and more time consuming than negotiations for new licenses. Moreover, customers may choose not to renew term licenses, resulting in reduced revenue to us. In addition, customers may wish to negotiate renewals of term licenses on terms and conditions that require us to change the way we recognize revenue under our existing revenue recognition practices at the time of such renewal with such customers. Any such changes could result in a material adverse effect on our results. If, due to one or more of the foregoing factors or an unanticipated cause, our operating results fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors in a future quarter, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Our lengthy sales cycle makes it difficult to predict quarterly revenue levels and operating results. Because license and implementation fees for our software products are substantial and the decision to purchase our products typically involves members of our customers’ senior management, the sales process for our solutions is lengthy and can exceed one year. Accordingly, the timing of our license revenues is difficult to predict, and the delay of an order could cause our quarterly revenues to fall substantially below our expectations and those of public market analysts and investors. Moreover, to the extent that we succeed in shifting customer purchases away from individual software products and toward more costly integrated suites of software and services, our sales cycle may lengthen, which could increase the likelihood of delays and cause the effect of a delay to become more pronounced. Delays in sales could cause significant shortfalls in our revenues and operating results for any particular period. We derive a majority of our total revenues from customers in the oil and gas, chemicals, petrochemicals and petroleum industries, which are highly cyclical, and our operating results may suffer if these industries experience an economic downturn. We derive a majority of our total revenues from companies in the oil and gas, chemicals, petrochemicals and petroleum industries. Accordingly, our future success depends upon the continued demand for manufacturing optimization software and services by companies in these process manufacturing industries. The oil and gas, chemicals, petrochemicals and petroleum industries are highly cyclical and highly reactive to the price of oil, as well as general economic conditions. In the past, worldwide economic downturns and pricing pressures experienced by oil and gas, chemical, petrochemical and petroleum companies have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings have caused delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by many of these companies. These delays and reductions have reduced demand for products and services like ours. A recurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in these industries, could harm our operating results in the future. 16 We have identified four material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006 that, if not remedied effectively, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements for future periods. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for our company, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2006 and identified four material weaknesses. A material weakness is defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. The material weaknesses identified by management as of June 30, 2006 consisted of: · inadequate and ineffective controls over the periodic financial close process; · ineffective and inadequate controls in the accounts receivable function over the process to record customer invoice payments timely and accurately; · inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for income taxes; and · inadequate and ineffective controls over accrual of goods and services received. For further information about these material weaknesses, please see “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” Because of these material weaknesses, our management concluded, as of June 30, 2006, that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. We are implementing remedial measures designed to address the material weaknesses identified as of June 30, 2006. If these remedial initiatives are insufficient to address the four identified material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, our operating results may be harmed, we may be subject to class action litigation, and our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. For example, material weaknesses that remain unremediated could result in material post-closing adjustments in future financial statements. Any failure to address the identified material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting” that are required to be included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reports. 17 We face risks related to securities litigation and investigations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 27, 2004, we announced that the audit committee of our board of directors had commenced an investigation into accounting for certain software license and service agreement transactions in fiscal 2000 to 2002 (and, later, fiscal 2000 to 2004) time frame. Following this announcement, we and certain of our current and former officers and directors were named defendants in securities class action and derivative lawsuits filed in Massachusetts federal district court, alleging violations of the Exchange Act and claiming material misstatements concerning our financial condition and results. On March 6, 2006, the court granted final approval of a $5.6 million settlement with the class. Pursuant to the terms of the Class action settlement, we paid $1.9 million and our insurance carrier paid $3.7 million into the settlement fund. Members of the class representing 1,457,969 shares of common stock, or less than 1% of the shares putatively purchased during the class action period, have opted out of this settlement and may choose to initiate their own legal actions against us actions. To date, state law claims, which we refer to as opt out claims, including claims of fraud, statutory treble damages, deceptive practices, and/ or rescissory damages liability, based on the restated results of one or more fiscal periods included in the restated financial statements referenced in the Class Action, have been filed against us in Massachusetts Superior Court. Defending against litigation requires significant attention and resources of management and may result in losses and damages that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation and investigation have resulted in the past, and may continue to result in the future, in significant legal expenses and may cause our customers, employees and investors to lose confidence in our company. Also in October 2004, the audit committee advised the SEC and NASDAQ of its investigation and provided them information as requested thereafter. On October 29, 2004, we announced that we had received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to transactions to which AspenTech was a party during the 2000 to 2002 time frame, associated documents dating from January 1, 1999, and additional materials. On June 9, 2006, we announced that we had received a “Wells Notice” letter from the SEC of possible civil enforcement action regarding our originally filed financial statements for fiscal years 2000 through 2004, which we restated in March 2005 following the conclusion of the audit committee’s review. In addition, on July 7, 2006, we announced that three of our former executive officers had each received a Wells Notice letter regarding the same matter. We have cooperated fully with the subpoena requests and in the investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the SEC. The investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office is ongoing in coordination with the SEC. There is no assurance, however, that the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are required to advance legal fees (subject to undertakings of repayment if required) and may be required to indemnify certain of our current or former directors and officers in connection with civil, criminal or regulatory proceedings or actions, and such indemnification commitments may be costly. Our director and officer liability insurance policies provide only limited liability protection relating to such actions against us and certain of our officers and directors and may not cover director and officer indemnification. If these policies do not adequately cover expenses and certain liabilities relating to any proceeding or lawsuit, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement thereof, our financial condition could be materially harmed. Also, increased premiums could materially harm our financial results in future periods. The inability to obtain coverage due to prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and directors and expose us to potentially self-funding any potential future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by director and officer liability insurance. 18 On September 6, 2006, we announced that, in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, a subcommittee composed of our independent directors was appointed to review our accounting treatment for stock option grants in prior years and that we would restate our financial statements for certain prior fiscal years. Defending against potential litigation relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements would likely require significant attention and resources of management. The review will result in, and any potential litigation could result in, significant legal expenses and may cause our customers, employees and investors to lose confidence in our company. We are currently unable to estimate the amount of the loss, if any, that may result from resolution of these matters, but their outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. New accounting standards or interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize software license revenue in accordance with SOP 97-2, as amended by SOP 98-4 and SOP 98-9, and in accordance with SOP 81-1. The accounting profession continues to discuss certain provisions of relevant accounting literature with the objective of providing additional guidance on potential interpretations related to software revenue recognition and “multiple element arrangements” in which a single contract includes a software license, a maintenance services agreement and/or other “elements” that are bundled together in a total offering to the customer. These discussions and the issuance of interpretations, once finalized, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices, which could change the timing of revenue recognition. Certain factors have in the past and may in the future cause us to defer recognition for license fees beyond delivery, such as the inclusion of material non-standard terms in our licensing agreements. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under US GAAP for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we may accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. We face increased competition and continuing obligations as a result of the sale of our operator training business and Hyprotech intellectual property to Honeywell and the settlement of proceedings with KBC Advanced Technologies, which could cause us to lose market share and otherwise harm our operating results. As a result of the consent decree we entered into with the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the related transactions with Honeywell and Bentley Systems, we transferred our AXSYS product line, our operator training business, and rights to the intellectual property of the Hyprotech product line. The ability of Honeywell to compete against our Hyprotech engineering products, the loss of our operator training business, the ability of Bentley Systems to compete against our Zyqad product line, and the increased costs of our support obligations to Honeywell under the two year support agreement may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Hyprotech engineering products are material to our current business and strategy, and any decrease in our revenues from these products may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Because Honeywell may license the Hyprotech engineering products on more favorable terms than we may offer, sell the Hyprotech engineering products to companies that are customers of both Honeywell and us, and bundle the Hyprotech engineering products with its other 19 products for the process industries, Honeywell may harm our ability to compete in the marketplace, including our ability to negotiate license renewals with our current customers. We have continuing obligations to Honeywell under our support arrangements with Honeywell and the FTC consent decree relating to the Hyprotech engineering products, which require significant resources and the attention of management. We are also subject to ongoing compliance obligations under the FTC consent decree and to subpoenas and other requests for information and documents from the FTC related to whether we have complied with the FTC consent decree. Ensuring our continued compliance with the FTC consent decree may subject us to increased legal fees and other expenses and obligations. If the FTC were to determine that we have not complied with our obligations under the consent decree, such determination could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. As part of our settlement with KBC Advanced Technologies, we agreed to recognize KBC’s right to develop, market and license HYSYS.Refinery, KBC’s refinery-wide simulation product which competes with our refinery-wide simulation product, Aspen RefSYS. As a result of this settlement, we may encounter increased competition from KBC, which could decrease our market share and our revenues. In addition, our markets in general are highly competitive. Our engineering software competes with products of other businesses such as ABB, Chemstations, Honeywell, KBC, Shell Global Solutions, Simulation Sciences (a division of Invensys), and WinSim (formerly ChemShare). Our plant operations software competes with products of companies such as ABB, Honeywell, Invensys, Rockwell, Siemens and components of SAP’s offering. Our supply chain management software competes with products of companies such as Honeywell, i2 Technologies, Manugistics (a subsidiary of JDA Software Group), Infor and components of SAP’s supply chain offering. As we expand our engineering solutions into other markets we may face competition from companies that we have not typically competed against in the past or competition from companies in areas where we have not competed in the past, such as ABB, Agile, EDS, Honeywell, Invensys, Parametric Technology, SAP and Siemens. We also face competition in all areas of our business from large companies in the process industries that have internally developed their own proprietary software solutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have established, and may in the future continue to establish, cooperative relationships with third parties to improve their product offerings and to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. In addition, competitors may make strategic acquisitions to increase their ability to gain market share or improve the quality or marketability of their products. These cooperative relationships and strategic acquisitions could reduce our market share, require us to lower our prices, or both. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. If economic conditions and the markets for our products do not continue to improve, sales of our product lines, particularly our manufacturing/supply chain product suites, will be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy and global economic and political uncertainty have previously caused delays and reductions in information technology spending by our customers and a consequent deterioration of the markets for our products and services, particularly our manufacturing/supply chain product suites. If adverse economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, we will experience further reductions, delays, and postponements of customer purchases that will negatively impact our revenue and operating results. If economic and political conditions and the market for our products do not continue to improve and our revenues decline, our business could be harmed, and we may not be able to further reduce our costs to align them with these decreased revenues. 20 If we do not continue to make the technological advances required by the marketplace, our business could be seriously harmed. Enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide greater levels of functionality and broader product offerings. Moreover, competitors continue to make rapid technological advances in computer hardware and software technology and frequently introduce new products, services and enhancements. We must continue to enhance our current product line and develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and the technological developments of our competitors. Our business and operating results could suffer if we cannot successfully respond to the technological advances of others or if our new products or product enhancements and services do not achieve market acceptance. Under our business plan, we are investing significantly in the development of new business process products that are intended to anticipate and meet the emerging needs of our target markets. We are implementing a product strategy that unify our software solutions under the aspenONE brand with differentiated aspenONE vertical solutions targeted at specific process industries. We cannot assure you that our product strategy will result in products that will meet market needs and achieve significant market acceptance. If we are unable to successfully market our products to senior executives of potential customers, our revenue growth may be limited. With the development of our integrated aspenONE solutions, we frequently must focus on selling the strategic value of our technology to the highest executive levels of customer organizations, typically the chief executive officer, chief financial officer or chief information officer. If we are not successful at selling and marketing to senior executives, our revenue growth and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to develop or maintain strategic alliance relationships, our revenue growth may be harmed. An element of our growth strategy is to establish strategic alliances with a selected third-party systems integrators that market and integrate our products. If our current systems integrators terminate their existing relationships with us, or if we do not adequately train a sufficient number of other systems integrators, or if potential systems integrators focus their efforts on integrating or co-selling competing products to the process industries, our future revenue growth could be limited and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. If our systems integrators fail to implement our solutions for our customers properly, the reputations of our products and services and our company could be harmed and we might be subject to claims by our customers. We intend to continue to establish business relationships with technology companies to accelerate the development and marketing of our products and services. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in maintaining our existing relationships and developing new relationships, our revenue growth may be materially and adversely affected. We may suffer losses on fixed-price engagements. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenues from service engagements and a significant percentage of these engagements have been undertaken on a fixed-price basis. Under these fixed-price engagements, we bear the risk of cost overruns and inflation, and as a result, any of these engagements may be unprofitable. In the past, we have had cost overruns on fixed-price service engagements. In addition, to the extent that we are successful in shifting customer purchases to our integrated suites of software and services and we price those engagements on a fixed-price basis, the size of our fixed-price engagements may increase, which could cause the impact of an unprofitable fixed-price engagement to have a more pronounced impact on our operating results. 21 Our business may suffer if we fail to address the challenges associated with international operations. We derived approximately 60% of our total revenues from customers outside the United States in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005 and 2006. We anticipate that revenues from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers; · political and economic instability; · less effective protection of intellectual property; · difficulties in managing distributors and representatives and potential losses associated with termination of such arrangements; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; · difficulties and delays in translating products and product documentation into foreign languages; · difficulties and delays in negotiating software licenses compliant with accounting revenue recognition requirements in the United States; · difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results cannot be accurately predicted. In recent years, we have increased the extent to which we denominate arrangements with international customers in the currencies of the countries in which the software or services are provided. From time to time we have engaged in, and may continue to engage in, hedges of a significant portion of installment contracts denominated in foreign currencies. Any hedging policies implemented by us may not be successful, and the cost of these hedging techniques may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share. We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, license and confidentiality agreements, and software security measures to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered or have applied to register several of our significant trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and customers, and historically have restricted access to our software products’ source codes, which we regard as proprietary information. In a few cases, we have provided copies of the source code for some of our products to customers solely for the purpose of special product customization and have deposited copies of the source code for some of our products in third-party escrow accounts as security for ongoing service and license obligations. In these cases, we rely on non-disclosure and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Any misappropriation of our technology or development of competitive technologies could harm our business, and could force us to incur substantial costs in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. The laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 22 Third-party claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others may be costly to defend or settle and could damage our business. We cannot be certain that our software and services do not infringe issued patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry, and we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our licensees concerning their use of our software products and integration technologies and services. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to market our software without incurring liability to third parties, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us. Because our software is integrated with our customers’ networks and business processes, as well as other software applications, third parties may bring claims of infringement against us, as well as our customers and other software suppliers, if the cause of the alleged infringement cannot easily be determined. Such claims may be with or without merit. Claims of alleged infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business and may discourage potential customers from doing business with us on acceptable terms, if at all. Defending against claims of infringement may be time-consuming and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including our management’s attention to our business. Furthermore, a party making an infringement claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our software or require that we re-engineer some or all of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter costly royalty or license agreements. We may be unable, however, to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed significantly if any of these events occurred, and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Furthermore, former employers of our current and future employees may assert that our employees have improperly disclosed confidential or proprietary information to us. In addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our software infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims. In the event of a claim of infringement, we, as well as our customers, may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required licenses could harm our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock. In addition, although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage may not apply to, and likely would not protect us from, all liability that may be imposed under these types of claims. Because some of our software products incorporate technology licensed from, or provided by, third parties, the loss of our right to use that technology or defects in that third party technology could harm our business. Some of our software products contain technology that is licensed from, or provided by, third parties. Any significant interruption in the supply or support of any such third-party software could adversely affect our sales, unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by the third-party software. Because some of our software incorporates software developed and maintained by third parties, we depend on these third parties to deliver and support reliable products, enhance our current software, develop new software on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. In other instances we provide third-party software with our current software, and we depend on these third parties to deliver reliable products, provide underlying product support and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The failure of these third parties to meet these criteria could harm our business. 23 Our software is complex and may contain undetected errors. Like many other complex software products, our software has on occasion contained undetected errors or “bugs.” Because new releases of our software products are initially installed only by a selected group of customers, any errors or “bugs” in those new releases may not be detected for a number of months after the delivery of the software. These errors could result in loss of customers, harm to our reputation, adverse publicity, loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, increased insurance costs or claims against us by customers. We may be subject to significant expenses and damages because of liability claims. The sale and implementation of certain of our software products and services, particularly in the areas of advanced process control and optimization, entail the risk of product liability claims and associated damages. Our software products and services are often integrated with our customers’ networks and software applications and are used in the design, operation and management of manufacturing processes at large facilities, often for mission critical applications. Any errors, defects, performance problems or other failure of our software could result in significant liability to us for damages or for violations of environmental, safety and other laws and regulations. We are currently defending claims that our software products and implementation services have failed to meet customer expectations, and our software products and implementation services could continue to give rise to warranty and other claims. Our agreements with our customers generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions in our agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, foreign, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. A substantial product liability judgment against us could materially and adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. Also, even if our software is not at fault, a product liability claim brought against us could be time consuming, costly to defend and harmful to our operations. In addition, although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us from all liability that may be imposed under these types of claims. Implementation of our products can be difficult and time-consuming, and customers may be unable to implement our products successfully or otherwise achieve the benefits attributable to our products. Our products are intended to work with complex business processes. Some of our software, such as customized scheduling applications and integrated supply chain products, must integrate with the existing computer systems and software programs of our customers. This can be complex, time-consuming and expensive. As a result, some customers may have difficulty in implementing or be unable to implement these products successfully or otherwise achieve the benefits attributable to these products. Customers may also make claims against us relating to the functionality, performance or implementation of this software. Delayed or ineffective implementation of the software products or related services may limit our ability to expand our revenues and may result in customer dissatisfaction, harm to our reputation and may result in customer unwillingness to pay the fees associated with these products. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining management team members and other highly qualified individuals in our industry, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to establish and maintain a position of technology leadership in the highly competitive software market depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel. We have recently had a number of changes in our senior management, including the hiring of a new chief financial officer in September 2006. In addition, several of our executive officers have not entered into employment agreements with us. In the future, we may experience the departure of senior executives due to competition for talent from start-ups and other companies. 24 Our future success depends on a continued, successful management transition and will also depend on our continuing to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which became law in July 2002, and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our annual legal and financial compliance costs, have made some activities more time-consuming and costly, and could expose us to additional liability. We incurred approximately $1.1 million in Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses in our fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, and we expect to continue to incur significant Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses for the foreseeable future. In addition, these rules and regulations may make retention and recruitment of qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or executive management more difficult. We continue to evaluate and monitor regulatory and legislative developments and cannot reliably estimate the timing or magnitude of all costs we may incur as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or other related legislation or regulation. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock may experience substantial price and volume fluctuations. The equity markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the high technology sector, and those fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, factors such as our financial performance, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, as well as market conditions in the computer software or hardware industries, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. In March 2006, we settled a putative class action lawsuit that was pending against us in U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, as described under “We face risks related to securities litigation and investigations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” To date, state law claims, which we refer to as opt out claims, including claims of fraud, statutory treble damages, deceptive practices, and/ or rescissory damages liability, based on the restated results of one or more fiscal periods included in the restated financial statements referenced in the Class Action, have been filed against us in Massachusetts Superior Court. This type of litigation could result in substantial liability and costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Our common stockholders may experience further dilution as a result of provisions contained in our outstanding Series D preferred and warrants. The terms of our outstanding securities may result in substantial dilution to existing common stockholders. In August 2003, we issued 300,300 shares of Series D-1 preferred and delivered cash and 63,064 shares of Series D-2 preferred in consideration for the surrender of all of our outstanding Series B preferred. Each share of our Series D preferred is currently convertible, at the holder’s option, into 100 shares of our common stock and may be converted into additional shares of our common stock upon 25 certain events as a result of antidilution provisions in our charter. In addition, we issued the WD warrants and exchanged existing warrants to purchase 791,044 shares of common stock for the WB warrants. The WD warrants and WB warrants are currently exercisable for an aggregate of 2,052,324 shares of our common stock and may be converted into additional shares upon certain events as a result of antidilution provisions in the warrants. The Series D preferred, together with the WD warrants and WB warrants, were issued to several investment partnerships managed by Advent International Corporation and to holders of our Series B preferred. In addition to the Series D preferred and the WD and WB warrants, we currently have additional warrants outstanding that are exercisable to purchase 1,023,474 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $9.76 per share. Our common stockholders would be subject to substantial dilution if the Series D preferred is converted into common stock or if our outstanding warrants are exercised for common stock. Each share of Series D preferred is entitled to a cumulative dividend of 8.0% of the stated value per share of such Series D preferred per year, payable at the discretion of the board of directors or upon conversion of the Series D preferred to common stock or redemption of the Series D preferred. Accumulated dividends, when and if declared by our board, could be paid in cash or, subject to specified conditions, common stock. If we elect to pay dividends in shares of common stock, we will issue a number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the dividend payment by the volume weighted average of the sale prices of the common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market for 20 consecutive trading days, ending on the fourth trading day prior to the required dividend payment date. We are obligated to register for public sale shares of common stock issuable pursuant to our outstanding Series D preferred and warrants, and sales of those shares may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. We have granted rights to require that we register under the Securities Act the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of, or as dividends on, the Series D preferred and upon the exercise of either the WB warrants or WD warrants: · Series D-1 preferred. The holders of the Series D-1 preferred have the right to demand that we file on their behalf up to four registration statements covering shares of common stock issuable upon (a) conversion of the Series D-1 preferred and (b) exercise of the WD warrants issued to the holders of the Series D-1 preferred. In May 2006, we received a demand letter from the Series D-1 preferred holders, in accordance with the terms of their investor rights agreement with us, requesting the registration of all of the shares of common stock into which their shares of Series D-1 preferred are convertible and their WD warrants are exercisable in an underwritten public offering. As of September 8, 2006, the total number of shares of common stock that would be covered by this registration demand letter is approximately 31,499,336. We are continuing to discuss this letter with our professional advisors and the Series D-1 preferred holders. · Series D-2 preferred. We previously filed a registration statement that covers all of the shares of common stock issuable upon (a) conversion of the Series D-2 preferred and (b) exercise of the WB and WD warrants issued to the initial holders of the Series D-2 preferred. In addition, to the extent we elect to pay dividends on the Series D preferred in shares of our common stock, we are required to register such shares. Any sale of common stock into the public market by the holders of the Series D preferred pursuant to a registration statement could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 26 We may need to raise capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. We expect that our current cash balances, cash-equivalents, short-term investments, proceeds from the anticipated sale of installment contracts, funds available under our bank line of credit, and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. We may need to obtain additional financing thereafter or earlier, however, if our current plans and projections prove to be inaccurate or our expected cash flows prove to be insufficient to fund our operations because of lower-than-expected revenues, fewer sales of installment contracts, unanticipated expenses, including those related to the class action lawsuits or their outcome or settlement, or other unforeseen difficulties. Our sales of receivables are an important part of our cash management program. We currently have arrangements to sell long-term contracts to three financial institutions, General Electric Capital Corporation, Bank of America and Silicon Valley Bank. These contracts represent amounts due over the life of existing term licenses. Under the three arrangements, we sold installments receivable of $23.5 million and $77.1 million during the three and twelve months ended June 30, 2006, respectively. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, our installments receivable balance increased to $47.8 million at June 30, 2006 from $23.8 million at June 30, 2005. Our ability to continue these arrangements or replace them with similar arrangements is important to maintain adequate funding. If there is insufficient interest from third parties in purchasing our installments receivable contracts, our ability to generate cash required to meet our financial obligations may be impaired. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations through the sales of our installments receivable contracts, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor interest. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of any financing unattractive. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may have to forego strategic acquisitions or investments, reduce or defer our development activities, or delay our introduction of new products and services. Any of these actions may seriously harm our business and operating results. The holders of our Series D preferred and WB and WD warrants own a substantial portion of our capital stock that may afford them significant influence over our affairs. As of September 8, 2006, the Series D preferred (as converted to common stock) represented 37.4% of our outstanding common stock and the WB and WD warrants were exercisable for a number of shares representing 2.3% of our outstanding common stock (ignoring certain limitations on the ability to convert such shares or exercise such warrants). As a result, the holders of the Series D preferred and the WB and WD warrants, if acting together, would have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: · any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · the approval of some mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or · the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. 27 In addition, the holders of the Series D-1 preferred have elected three of our non-employee board members. Accordingly, the holders of our Series D-1 preferred may be able to exert substantial influence over matters submitted for board approval. Our corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our charter and by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 