Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional considerations not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Factors That May Affect Our Business, Future Operating Results and Financial Condition Risks Related to Our Home and Garden Business Our business is dependent on the success of our Home and Garden Business, which has a limited operating history, has generated only limited revenue to date and in which we do not currently expect to substantially increase our investment. On February 28, 2007, we completed the sale of all of our Harpin Protein Technology to PHC. Following the sale, we retained only our cash, accounts receivable, tax attributes and assets related to our Home and Garden Business, primarily our inventory of harpin protein-based products designated for the Home and Garden Market. In connection with the sale, PHC granted us the exclusive license and right to sell harpin protein-based products in the Home and Garden Market. In selling our Harpin Protein Technology, we sold all of our technology and our most significant source of revenue. The Harpin Protein Technology represented approximately 90% of our total net revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Our future operations are dependent upon the success of our Home and Garden Business. Our Home and Garden Business has a limited operating history and has had only limited revenues to date. We generated revenue from our Home and Garden Business of $385,000 in 2006, $391,000 in 2005 and $200,000 in 2004. Due to our limited experience operating our Home and Garden Business, we have limited ability to forecast future demand for Home and Garden Products and limited financial data upon which you may evaluate our Home and Garden Business and its prospects. The gross margins in our Home and Garden Business may be reduced, as compared to margins prior to the sale, due to the cost of purchasing harpin protein-based products from PHC under the terms of the license and supply agreement described above. We do not currently intend to significantly increase our investment toward the development of our Home and Garden Business, and we cannot provide any assurance that our Home and Garden Products will achieve greater market acceptance. Moreover, although we may invest in other businesses or technologies in the future, we have no current specific plans to do so at this time. If we are not successful in operating our Home and Garden Business, our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards, will be adversely affected and ultimately may be unsuccessful. 10 If PHC does not perform its obligations under the promissory note issued in connection with the sale of our Harpin Protein Technology and if Plant Health Care plc does not perform its obligations under the guaranty, we may not receive some or all of the deferred consideration payable by PHC under the Asset Purchase Agreement, which could adversely affect our operations. We currently hold a secured promissory note from PHC for $700,000 of the total $2.2 million purchase price payable to us in connection with PHC’s purchase of our Harpin Protein Technology. The promissory note, which matures on December 28, 2007, has an interest rate of 5% per annum and is secured by a first priority security interest in the equipment and certain intellectual property and other assets acquired by PHC in the transaction pursuant to a security agreement and patent and trademark security agreement. The amount payable under the promissory note may be reduced, up to the full principal amount of the note, if we are obligated to make any indemnification payments to PHC under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement. For example, an indemnification claim by PHC could result if PHC suffers any damages arising out of the inaccuracy of any of our representations about our Harpin Protein Technology or if we fail to comply with a covenant or other agreement in the Asset Purchase Agreement. The payment of any such indemnification obligations could adversely impact our cash resources and our ability to conduct our remaining operations and to explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. PHC’s payment obligations under the promissory note are guaranteed by PHC’s indirect parent, Plant Health Care plc. We have no assurance that PHC can or will perform its payment and other obligations under the promissory note and the security agreement, or that, in the event that PHC defaults on its obligations, that Plant Health Care plc can or will perform its obligations under the guaranty. Based on our review of publicly available consolidated financial statements of Plant Health Care plc, that company has reported a loss and negative cash flow from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the six months ended June 30, 2006. We believe PHC may not be able to pay the promissory note solely from operating cash flow and may therefore be required to raise additional funds to satisfy the promissory note. If PHC is unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the promissory note and the security agreement and Plant Health Care plc is unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the guaranty, our receipt of the full amount of the purchase price payable under the Asset Purchase Agreement may be delayed or may not be collectible at all. Additionally, we may incur significant legal fees in pursuing collection of the promissory note and in enforcing our rights and remedies under the security agreement, including the costs associated with retaking possession of the collateral and selling, leasing, transferring or otherwise disposing of the collateral. Moreover, we have no assurance that PHC will, despite its contractual obligation to do so, take required actions to preserve the condition and value of the collateral or that, even if PHC takes all required actions, the value of the collateral or the proceeds realizable from any sales thereof, will, at the time such remedy is sought or obtained, be sufficient to cover all unpaid amounts due under the promissory note. Any such delay, additional costs, loss or nonpayment could adversely affect our ability to fund our remaining operations. Management could spend or invest the net proceeds from the sale in ways with which our shareholders may not agree. At closing, we received cash proceeds from the sale of our Harpin Protein Technology in the amount of $1.5 million. These proceeds, as well as the deferred portion of the consideration payable in the future, will be used to fund the working capital requirements of our Home and Garden Business while we explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. However, management will have ultimate discretion as to the specific uses of the proceeds and could spend or invest the proceeds from the sale in ways with which our shareholders may not agree. The investment of these proceeds may not yield a favorable return. Furthermore, because our Home and Garden Business is evolving, in the future, we may discover new opportunities that are more attractive. Our overall business objective is to become profitable and realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. Strategies for attaining this objective may include pursuing acquisitions intended to increase revenues and generate net income. Although we do not currently have specific plans to do so, we may in the future commit resources to such acquisitions or other alternative opportunities. If we change our business focus, we may face risks that are different from the risks currently associated with our Home and Garden Business. As we redeploy our assets, we will continue to incur significant operating losses and negative cash flow, and we may never be profitable. We were required to spend significant funds to complete the transaction with PHC, and will be required to spend significant funds to reposition our operations and sales and marketing organization to fit the needs of our Home and Garden Business. We have incurred significant operating and net losses and negative cash flow and have never achieved profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $126.3 million. We expect to continue to experience operating losses in our Home and Garden Business for the foreseeable future. To achieve operating profitability in our Home and Garden Business, we will need to substantially grow the customer base for our Home and Garden Business; however, as noted above, we do not currently intend to significantly increase our investment toward the development of our Home and Garden Business. We may not be able to increase our revenue in this manner. 11 The future prospects of our Home and Garden Business must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • obtain timely access to adequate and cost-effective supply of harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products; • attract and retain customers, particularly in light of uncertain economic conditions and the seasonality of our product use; • establish awareness of our Home and Garden Business and Home and Garden products; • expand current and develop new distribution channels to sell products in the Home and Garden Market; • obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals; • develop additional strategic partnerships to facilitate our marketing and sales efforts; and • respond to the rapidly changing market for plant protection and yield enhancement products. We may not successfully address some or all of these risks. If we do not successfully address these risks, we may not realize sufficient revenue or net income to reach or sustain profitability or continue operations. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, we will not have the resources to explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. Even if we were to achieve profitability, there are significant material uncertainties about our ability to effectively utilize or otherwise realize potential value from our tax loss carryforwards. Some of these risks and uncertainties are described below under the heading “Risks Related to Our Business Plan to Utilize Tax Loss Carryforwards.” As a result of the sale of our Harpin Protein Technology, we are dependent on PHC for the manufacture and supply of harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products for our Home and Garden Business, and any failure of PHC to provide timely delivery of high quality products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Upon depletion or expiration of our existing home and garden inventory, we expect to acquire all harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products for our Home and Garden Business from PHC pursuant to a license and supply agreement with PHC. Under this agreement, PHC has granted us an exclusive worldwide right and license to sell harpin protein-based products in the Home and Garden Market, as well as a royalty-free, worldwide exclusive non-transferable license to use the Messenger, MightyPlant and Harp-N-Tek trademarks in connection with our advertising, promotion, distribution and sale of such products. The agreement provides that PHC will supply us with harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products in quantities requested by us through purchase orders submitted pursuant to the supply and license agreement, at a price equal to 80% of PHC’s actual U.S. agricultural distributor price. In the event that PHC is unable or unwilling to provide us with requested products, we may declare a “failure of supply” (as defined in the license and supply agreement) and select and qualify a second source to provide us harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products. The license and supply agreement will continue until expiration of the last U.S. or foreign patent relating to the products held or acquired by PHC in connection with the sale. Thereafter, the license and supply agreement will automatically extend for consecutive five-year periods, unless we elect to terminate the license and supply agreement at our sole option. We have no assurance that PHC will be able to manufacture and provide sufficient quantities or quality of harpin proteins and harpin protein-based products on a timely basis, or at all, or otherwise perform its obligations under the license and supply agreement. If PHC is unwilling or unable to perform such obligations, our Home and Garden Business and results of operations could be materially adversely impaired. Among other things, we may suffer delays in, or be prevented from, fulfilling customer orders and may incur substantial legal and other expenses in enforcing our rights under the license and supply agreement, including identifying and qualifying a second source of supply, if one is even available. In addition, PHC has agreed to maintain in certain jurisdictions, as specified within the license and supply agreement, all regulatory approvals with the EPA relating to our Home and Garden Products. Failure of PHC to secure and maintain applicable EPA approvals or otherwise comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect or interrupt our sole source of supply of Home and Garden Products. If our sole source of supply is interrupted, our Home and Garden Business and results of operations could be materially adversely impaired. Our Home and Garden Business is relatively new and has limited market awareness, and we may not be successful in building greater market awareness and increasing sales. Our Home and Garden Products are not well known in the market. Our sales of Home and Garden Products to date have come primarily through our website and we believe have been driven by word-of-mouth recommendations from current customers. Our future success will depend in significant part on our ability to generate demand for harpin protein-based products in the Home and Garden Market, specifically among the general public, resellers or businesses that sell the products to the general public and businesses that incorporate harpin protein-based products into existing or new products to be sold to 12 the general public. To this end, our direct and indirect sales operations must increase market awareness of our Home and Garden Business and our products to generate increased revenue. However, as noted above, we have not invested significant resources in, and do not currently intend to significantly increase our investment toward the development of our Home and Garden Business. At March 23, 2007, we had five employees, only two of whom are focused on marketing our Home and Garden Products. We have no current plans to increase our full-time sales and marketing capabilities in the Home and Garden Market, and we expect to continue to generate a substantial portion of our sales through our website based on positive word-of-mouth. We cannot assure you that our sales and marketing personnel will successfully compete against the sales and marketing operations of our current and future competitors that may have greater resources and more established relationships with distributors, retailers and growers. If we are not successful in building greater market awareness and generating increased sales, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. If we fail to generate sufficient sales from our Home and Garden Business to cover our operating costs, our business operations and prospects, including our ability to explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards, will be adversely affected, creating substantial doubt about our ability to stay in business. We may be unable to establish or maintain successful relationships with independent distributors and retailers, which could adversely affect our sales and our ability to generate revenue from our Home and Garden Business. Our ability to sell our Home and Garden Products will be significantly impaired if we fail to develop our distribution channels. We will need to increase sales to independent distributors and retailers in the Home and Garden Market to expand sales of our products. We have engaged several independent distributors and retailers for the distribution and sale of our Home and Garden Products. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining these sales and distribution channels. We are continuing to develop our distribution network and we may be unable to establish or maintain these relationships in a timely or cost-effective manner. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the distributors and retailers on which we rely will focus adequate resources on selling these products or will be successful in selling them. Many of our potential distributors and retailers are in the business of distributing and sometimes manufacturing other, possibly competing, plant protection and yield enhancement products for the Home and Garden Market and may perceive our products as a threat to various product lines currently being manufactured or distributed by them. In addition, the distributors and retailers may earn higher margins by selling competing products or combinations of competing products. If we are unable to establish or maintain successful relationships with independent distributors and retailers, we may need to further develop our own distribution and sales and marketing capabilities, which would be expensive and time-consuming and the success of which would be uncertain. We currently have approximately eight key distributors of our Home and Garden Products. If any distributor or retailer that purchases a significant amount of our Home and Garden Products were to discontinue purchasing our products any time, our sales would be adversely affected. In addition, the failure of any of these distributors and retailers, or any other distributor or retailer to which we extend a significant amount of credit, to pay its account now or in the future may harm our operating results. The market for Home and Garden Products is competitive and we may not have the resources required to compete effectively. The high level of competition in these markets may result in price reductions, reduced margins or the inability of our products to achieve market acceptance. The market for home and garden plant protection and plant health products is intensely competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or the inability to achieve market acceptance of our current or any future products. We expect competition within the plant protection and plant health industry to intensify as regulatory pressures on traditional chemical solutions increase. This may occur as advances in plant protection and disease resistance technologies become more widely known. The plant health industry is dominated by multinational chemical and pharmaceutical companies, including The Scotts Miracle-Grow Company, Syngenta AG, BASF AG, and Bayer AG. Many of the large chemical pesticide companies are also developing products that they believe are less environmentally harmful than traditional chemical pesticides and that may directly compete with our current or future Home and Garden Products. Syngenta AG, a large multinational company, manufactures a product that is designed to induce disease-resistant systems in plants. Other small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, development and marketing of products similar to ours. Many of our current and potential future competitors have significantly more capital, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, human and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, receive greater resources and support from 13 independent distributors, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily. Furthermore, large chemical and pharmaceutical companies have a more diversified product offering than we do, which may give them an advantage in meeting customer needs by enabling them to offer integrated solutions to plant protection and plant health in the Home and Garden Market. We are unable to compete with PHC’s Harpin Protein Technology business until after February 28, 2009. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, we have agreed that we will not engage in or own or control any interest (except as a passive investor of less than 5% of the outstanding equity interests of a public company) in any entity that directly competes with PHC’s Harpin Protein Technology business until after February 28, 2009. The Asset Purchase Agreement specifically provides that our Home and Garden Business is not deemed to compete with PHC’s Harpin Protein Technology business. The noncompetition covenant also does not apply to any future activities undertaken by us relating to the development, testing, manufacture, sale and/or distribution of synthetic chemistry pesticides for or in the worldwide agricultural, horticultural and retail markets. However, this noncompetition covenant may limit our ability to pursue businesses opportunities, including, for example, the sale of our remaining business or the acquisition of other businesses that might otherwise improve our financial results or enable us to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. We may not be able to become profitable unless we identify and acquire other businesses on favorable terms. We believe that our ability to achieve profitability may depend in substantial part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable acquisitions on favorable terms, so that we can increase our revenues and generate new income. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, our business will be very limited and may not generate sufficient revenue to cover our expenses. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or that such transactions, if completed, will contribute positively to our operations and financial results and condition. If we issue stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for stock in connection with any acquisition, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution and new shareholders could have rights superior to current shareholders. In addition, as further noted below, the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and certain applicable Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regulations will limit the number of shares of stock we can sell from time to time without causing a limitation on our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards. Our Home and Garden Business currently depends on products that are based on the same new technology, and our commercialization of those products may not be successful. For the immediately foreseeable future, we will be dependent on the successful commercialization in the Home and Garden Market of three products (Messenger, Messenger Seed Treatment and MightyPlant with Messenger Gold, the latter of which we plan to introduce into the Home and Garden Market during the second quarter of 2007) which are based on the same new technology. Substantially all of our sales in the Home and Garden Market have come from our first harpin protein and from a single product, Messenger. These sales have been limited and quite small in comparison to the size of the overall Home and Garden Market. Our current and any new Home and Garden Products we develop may not be commercially successful and may not prove effective or economically viable. In addition, because our Home and Garden Products have not been put to widespread use over significant periods of time, no assurance can be given that adverse consequences might not result from their use, such as soil or other environmental degradation, the development of negative effects on animals or plants or reduced benefits in terms of plant health or protection. A variety of factors will determine the success of our market development and commercialization efforts and the rate and extent of acceptance of our current or any future Home and Garden Products, including our ability to implement and maintain an appropriate pricing policy and general economic conditions in the Home and Garden Market, including weather conditions and the extent to which the general public and regulatory authorities accept new plant and seed protection and plant health products developed through biotechnology. Our inability to obtain regulatory approvals, or to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent sales of our current or any future Home and Garden Products. The sale and use of plant health products containing harpin proteins are extensively regulated by the EPA and/or state, local and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations substantially increase the cost and time associated with bringing our current and any future Home and Garden Products to market. All EPA (Federal) registrations were transferred to PHC in connection with the sale of our Harpin Protein Technology while state registrations and permits are not transferable. We currently sell our Home and Garden Products pursuant to an 18-month grace period during which we may continue to sell our Home and Garden Products in those jurisdictions for which we previously had obtained authorization. Thereafter, we intend to register and obtain our own regulatory approvals under the EPA’s “me too” or third-party registration process and will subsequently register our Home and Garden Products in the States and other jurisdictions, as necessary. If we do not continue to receive the necessary governmental approvals to market these products, obtain required approvals in the future, or if the regulatory authorities revoke our approvals or grant them subject to restrictions on their use, we may be unable to sell our Home and Garden Products and our business may fail. 14 We are required to obtain regulatory approval from certain state and foreign regulatory authorities before we market our products in those jurisdictions. Some of these jurisdictions may apply different criteria than the EPA in connection with their approval processes. Although we are currently authorized to sell Messenger for virtually all home and garden uses in 49 states, and in California for disease management use on citrus, strawberries, grapes and fruiting vegetables, we may not be able to obtain future registrations for current or future products or maintain these registrations. Even if we obtain all necessary regulatory approvals to market and sell our current and any future products, these products will be subject to continuing review and extensive regulatory requirements. The EPA, as well as state and foreign governmental authorities, could withdraw a previously approved product from the market upon discovery of new information, including an inability or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unanticipated problems with the product, or for other reasons. In addition, federal, state and foreign regulations relating to plant protection products developed through biotechnology are subject to public concerns and political circumstances and, as a result, regulations have changed and may change substantially in the future. These changes may result in limitations on the manufacturing, marketing or use of our current and any future Home and Garden Products. If we do not adequately distinguish our products from genetically modified plants and products, public concerns over those products could negatively impact market acceptance and regulatory approval of our products. Claims that the output of genetically modified plants is unsafe for consumption or that these plants pose a danger to the environment have led to public concerns and negative attitudes about genetically modified plants. We intend to distinguish our harpin protein-based Home and Garden Products from genetically modified plants and products. Our products are topically applied and do not modify the plant’s DNA. If the public or regulatory authorities perceive our products as products that genetically modify plants, market acceptance and registration of our products could be delayed, impaired or limited. We may be exposed to product liability claims, which could adversely affect our operations. We may be held liable or incur costs to settle product liability claims if the products we sell cause injury or are found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks exist even with respect to any products that have received, or may in the future receive, regulatory approval, registration or clearance for commercial use. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to avoid product liability exposure. We currently maintain product liability insurance at levels we believe are sufficient and consistent with industry standards for companies at our stage of development. We cannot guarantee that our product liability insurance is adequate, and, at any time, it is possible that such insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A product liability claim could result in liability to us greater than our assets and insurance coverage. Moreover, even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product liability claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time and attention to matters other than those that arise in the normal course of business. Rapid changes in technology could render our current or any future products we may develop unmarketable or obsolete. We are engaged in an industry characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological development. Our competitors, many of which have substantially greater technological and financial resources than we do, may develop plant protection and plant health technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that render harpin protein-based technology and our Home and Garden Products obsolete or uncompetitive. To be successful, we will need to continually enhance our current and any future products and develop and market new products that keep pace with new technological and industry developments. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. Our Home and Garden Business is highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our remaining personnel, particularly Bradley S. Powell, our President and Chief Financial Officer. In December 2006, we instituted a plan that reduced our total workforce to approximately five full-time employees as of March 23, 2007. Particularly when combined with prior reductions in workforce, employee morale may have suffered, and it may be more difficult to retain our highly qualified employees or recruit new employees. Our failure to retain our personnel could seriously disrupt our operations and increase our costs by forcing us to use more expensive outside consultants and impair our ability to generate revenue. If our customer base and revenue grow, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we may not be able to attract, train, integrate or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel if we need to do so in the future. Our liquidity and financial condition could be materially impaired if we are required to pay any severance amounts to Mr. Powell under his employment agreement and/or change of control agreement. Pursuant to an agreement we entered into with Mr. Powell in January 2002, if Mr. Powell’s employment is terminated by Eden Bioscience without cause, as defined in the agreement, he will receive a severance payment equal to six months of his annual base salary. 15 In addition, in August 2000, we entered into a change in control agreement with Mr. Powell. The agreement provides that, upon a change in control, we would continue to employ Mr. Powell, and he would remain in our employ, for a period of two years following such change in control. During that time, the agreement provides that the position, authority, duties and responsibilities of Mr. Powell must be at least reasonably commensurate in all material respects with the most significant of those held during the 90-day period prior to the change of control, and that his annual base salary must be at least equal to his annual base salary established by our board of directors prior to the change of control. The sale of our Harpin Protein Technology constituted a sale of substantially all of our assets and a change in control under Mr. Powell’s change in control agreement. If, during the two-year period following completion of the sale, the employment of Mr. Powell is terminated by us other than for cause, as defined in the agreement, or Mr. Powell resigns for good reason, as defined in the agreement, Mr. Powell would be entitled to receive (in addition to full vesting of his stock options): • his annual base salary, and pro rata annual bonus, through the date of termination, and any deferred compensation; and • a severance payment equal to twice the sum of his annual base salary and the average of his past three annual bonuses. We intend to continue to employ Mr. Powell as our President and Chief Financial Officer. However, there can be no assurance that, prior to February 28, 2009 (the end of the two-year period following the closing of the sale), we will not be required to terminate Mr. Powell’s employment without cause or that Mr. Powell will not terminate his employment and successfully assert that he had good reason under the change in control agreement to do so. If this happens, we would be required to pay Mr. Powell the amounts set forth in the change in control agreement which, based on his current annual base salary and bonus history, would be approximately $350,000. In addition, if we terminate Mr. Powell at any time without cause, we would also be required to pay him the severance amount set forth in his employment agreement. Payment of these amounts could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Plan to Utilize Tax Loss Carryforwards Our business objective of realizing potential value from our tax loss carryforwards is highly speculative and subject to numerous material uncertainties. Our business strategy is to use the proceeds from the sale of our Harpin Protein Technology to fund the working capital requirements of our Home and Garden Business while we explore whether there may be opportunities to realize potential value from our remaining business assets, primarily our tax loss carryforwards. The strategy is extremely speculative and subject to a large number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have conducted only limited preliminary analysis of our ability to utilize of our tax loss carryforwards and have drawn no final conclusions about the viability of this strategy. We have not developed any specific plan as to whether, how or within what time frame we might pursue or implement this strategy. In order to confirm whether there are opportunities to realize potential value from our tax loss carryforwards, we will need to engage legal and accounting professionals to validate the underlying assumptions related to our tax loss carryforwards and analyze and provide advice on the options that may be available to preserve and maximize the potential use of our deferred tax assets, as well as on potential limitations and risks of such utilization strategy. This will be an expensive and time consuming process, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from our Home and Garden Business or otherwise attract sufficient capital to support the process for its duration. Additionally, we have no assurance that, once we have completed and evaluated the information and analyses provided by our advisors, we will conclude that the potential utilization of our tax loss carryforwards is in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. If we make a determination to pursue a specific business plan with the potential for utilization of our tax loss carryforwards, we have no assurance that such plan will be successfully implemented or will result in any increase in shareholder value. We may not be able to realize value from our tax loss carryforwards. Our total U.S. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards were approximately $115.8 million at December 31, 2006 and expire between 2009 and 2026. The Company’s total foreign tax net operating loss carryforwards were approximately $8.4 million at December 31, 2006 of which $5.6 million expires between 2007 and 2016 and $2.8 does not expire. We have total net operating loss carryforwards in 19 states that range between $12.5 million to $2,000 per state and expire between 2007 and 2026. Our total general business credit carryforwards were approximately $1.4 million at December 31, 2006 and expire between 2013 and 2026. In the event we were to undergo an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Code, our net tax loss carryforwards generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these losses. Based upon a preliminary review of past changes in our ownership, we believe that we may have experienced one ownership change (as defined under Section 382) in October 2000 that would 16 result in a limitation on our future ability to use tax loss carryforwards generated prior to that date. We do not believe that the sale of assets to PHC resulted in another ownership change that further limits our future ability to use tax loss carryforwards generated after October 2000. However, we can not assure you that the IRS or some other taxing authority may not disagree with our position and contend that we have already experienced other such ownership changes or that the sale of assets to PHC resulted in an ownership change. In such case, our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income would be severely limited. If an ownership change does not occur as a result of the sale to PHC, there is still the potential for an ownership change to occur under Section 382 as a result of future changes in stock ownership. Generally, an ownership change occurs if one or more shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more in value of a corporation’s stock, increase their aggregate percentage ownership by more than 50% over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such shareholders at any time during the preceding three-year period. For example, if a single shareholder owning 10% of our stock acquired an additional 50.1% of our stock in a three-year period, a change of ownership would occur. Similarly, if ten persons, none of whom owned our stock, each acquired slightly over 5% of our stock within a three-year period (so that such persons own, in the aggregate, more than 50%) an ownership change would occur. Ownership of stock is determined by certain constructive ownership rules which can attribute ownership of stock owned by entities (such as estates, trusts, corporations, and partnerships) to the ultimate indirect owner. For purposes of this rule, all holders who each own less than 5% of a corporation’s stock are generally treated together as one (or, in certain cases, more than one) 5% shareholder. Transactions in the public markets among shareholders owning less than 5% of the equity securities generally are not included in the calculation. Special rules can result in the treatment of options (including warrants) or other similar interests as having been exercised if such treatment would result in an ownership change. As we explore whether there may be opportunities to utilize our tax loss carryforwards, due to the importance of avoiding a future ownership change under the tax laws, we will be limited in our ability to issue additional stock in the future to provide capital for our business. We would only be able to issue such additional stock in a manner that would not cause an ownership change, for purposes of these rules, and thus our ability to access the equity markets could be restricted. Finally, in addition to Section 382, certain other statutory provisions and common law doctrine could limit our opportunities to realize potential value from, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to preserve and utilize, our tax loss carryforwards. We may not be able to use our tax loss carryforwards because we may not generate taxable income. The use of our tax loss carryforwards is subject to uncertainty because it is dependent upon the amount of taxable income we generate. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income, if any, in future years to use the tax loss carryforwards before they expire. We believe that our ability to achieve profitability may depend in substantial part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable businesses on favorable terms, so that we can increase our revenues and generate new income. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or complete any such future acquisitions or that such transactions will be successful or enable us to utilize our tax loss carryforwards. We may seek additional capital from time to time, including through the sale of stock or other securities, which may result in dilution to existing shareholders. In addition, as noted above, the provisions of the Code and certain applicable IRS regulations will limit the number of shares of stock we can sell from time to time without causing a limitation on our ability to use our tax loss carryforwards to reduce our future tax obligations. The IRS could challenge the amount of our tax loss carryforwards. The amount of our tax loss carryforwards has not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the amount of our tax loss carryforwards, which could significantly reduce our tax loss carryforwards. In addition, calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 of the Code and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Finally, certain other statutory provisions and common law doctrine could limit our opportunities to realize potential value from, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to preserve and utilize, our tax loss carryforwards. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the calculation of the amount of our tax loss carryforwards may not be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. Possible changes in legislation could negatively affect our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our tax loss carryforwards. The rules relating to U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could adversely impair our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our tax loss carryforwards. 17 Limits on ownership of our common stock could have an adverse consequence to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock. As noted above, we must avoid an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code in order to potentially retain the ability to use our tax loss carryforwards to offset future income. This means that a potential buyer of our stock might be deterred from acquiring our common stock while we still have significant tax losses being carried forward, because such an acquisition might trigger an ownership change and severely impair our ability to use our tax losses against future income. Thus, this potential tax situation could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is limited trading volume in our common stock and you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares of common stock; it is possible that our stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “EDEN.” On March 16, 2007, the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.91. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as a $1.00 minimum closing bid price, shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million or market value of publicly held shares of $35 million, 500,000 shares of common stock publicly held, 300 round lot shareholders, two market makers and compliance with Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements, as well as additional or more stringent criteria that may be applied in the exercise of Nasdaq’s discretionary authority to maintain the quality of and public confidence in the Nasdaq market, prevent fraudulent and manipulative practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public interest. On December 11, 2006, we received notice from Nasdaq advising that our closing bid price has been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days and we are not therefore in compliance with the Nasdaq minimum bid price requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). We have been given a period of 180 days, or until June 11, 2007, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock would have to remain at $1.00 or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. If we do not regain compliance during this first 180-day period, Nasdaq will determine whether we meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria set out in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the minimum bid price requirement. If we meet the initial listing criteria, we will be eligible for an additional 180-day cure period. If we are not eligible for the additional cure period, Nasdaq will provide us written notification that our common stock will be delisted. In such case, we will have the right to appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. The 180-day cure period described above relates exclusively to our minimum bid price deficiency. We may be delisted during the 180-day period for failure to maintain compliance with any other continued listing requirements which occur during this period. Even if we are successful in curing our current non-compliance, we have no assurance that Nasdaq will not in the future seek to delist us for our failure to meet enumerated conditions for continued listing. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading will reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. 18 Our financial results may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Numerous factors will contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results. In particular, our sales are expected to be highly seasonal. Sales of Home and Garden Products depend on planting and growing seasons, climatic conditions and economic and other variables, which we expect to result in substantial fluctuations in our quarterly sales and earnings. For example, weather-related events such as droughts and floods, severe heat and frost, hail, tornadoes and hurricanes could decrease demand for our current and any future products, and have an adverse impact on our operating results from quarter to quarter. In addition, most of our expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payments for facilities, are relatively fixed. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales. As a result, any shortfall in sales relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Other factors may also contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results, including the amount of our Home and Garden Products carried in inventory by distributors and retailers, the amount of free product to be given to retailers, the size and timing of significant customer transactions and the delay or deferral of customer use of our products. For example, customers may purchase large quantities of our products under a promotion in a particular quarter to store and use over long periods of time, or time their purchases to coincide with the availability of capital, either of which may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results for a particular quarter or year. Due to these and other factors, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any one period as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Washington law could discourage a change of control or make it difficult to change the composition of directors and management. Provisions of our charter documents and Washington law may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult for shareholders to remover or replace our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws: • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; • stagger our board of directors, making it more difficult to elect a majority of the directors on our board and preventing our directors from being removed without cause; • limit who may call special meetings of shareholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the date the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of voting securities of the target corporation, unless the business transaction or the acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation’s voting securities. Prohibited business transactions include, among other things: • a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or • receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five-year period, a significant business transaction may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have an antitakeover effect with respect to transactions that our board does not approve in advance. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 