Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. We operate in an extremely competitive industry. If competitors develop more effective or less costly drugs for our target indications, our business could be seriously harmed. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing products that are more effective than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. Progress by other researchers in areas similar to those being explored by us may result in further competitive challenges. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products. They may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. Approximately 57% and 66% of our revenues from continuing operations were generated outside the United States during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We sell our pharmaceutical products in many countries around the world. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including possible nationalization or expropriation, price and currency exchange controls, fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, political instability and restrictive governmental actions. 12 Table of Contents If retigabine and other product candidates in development do not become approved and commercially successful products, our ability to generate future growth in revenue and earnings will be adversely affected. We focus our development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths. The outcome of any development program is highly uncertain. Products in clinical trials may fail to yield a commercial product, or a product may be approved by the FDA yet not be a commercial success. Success in preclinical and early stage clinical trials may not necessarily translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. In addition, we or a partner will need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in order to market retigabine and other product candidates. Even if they appear promising in large-scale Phase III clinical trials, regulatory approval may not be achieved. The results of clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent approval or result in the need for post-marketing studies. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and FDA review of a new application may cause delays or rejection. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indications for which we can market a product or onerous risk management programs, thereby reducing the size of the market that we would be able to address or our product may not be chosen by physicians for use by their patients. There is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the needed regulatory requirements, and we may not be able to generate significant revenue, if any, from retigabine and other product candidates. Obtaining necessary government approvals is time consuming and not assured. FDA approval must be obtained in the United States and approval must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical products for use by humans. Obtaining FDA approval for new products and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Numerous requirements must be satisfied, including preliminary testing programs on animals and subsequent clinical testing programs on humans, to establish product safety and efficacy. No assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in the United States, or any other country, of any application we may submit for the commercial sale of a new or existing drug or compound. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, or that those drugs or compounds will be commercially successful. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations could prevent or delay us from obtaining future regulatory approvals or jeopardize existing approvals, which could significantly increase our costs associated with obtaining approvals and negatively impact our market position. If we, our partners or licensees cannot successfully develop and/or commercialize our products, our growth rate would be negatively impacted. Our future growth rate will depend, in part, upon our ability or the ability of our partners or licensees to develop or obtain and commercialize new products and new formulations of, or indications for, current products. We are engaged in programs involving compounds which we may develop and/or commercialize ourselves, or with a partner or by a licensee. We may also participate in the development and/or commercialization of our partners’ product candidates. Commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with our partners or through our licensees, successfully develop or commercialize new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, or gain market acceptance for such products. Our existing arrangements with our partners and licensees contain, and future arrangements are likely to contain, various provisions, such as repayment upon termination rights, that, if exercised, could have a negative impact on efforts to commercialize the applicable products, or on our company in general. It may be necessary for us to enter into other arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies in order to market effectively any new products or new indications for existing products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such arrangements on terms favorable to us or at all. Any future revenue we may obtain under our worldwide license and collaboration agreement with GSK is subject to the risks and uncertainties described above. 13 Table of Contents Due to the large portion of our business conducted outside the United States, we have significant foreign currency risk. We sell products in many countries that are susceptible to significant foreign currency risk. In some of these markets we sell products for U.S. Dollars. While this eliminates our direct currency risk in such markets, it increases our risk that we could lose market share to competitors because if a local currency is devalued significantly, it becomes more expensive for customers in that market to purchase our products in U.S. Dollars. The international scope of our operations may also lead to volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our operations. We may be unable to identify, acquire and integrate acquisition targets successfully. Part of our business strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets, and forming strategic alliances, joint ventures and other business combinations, to help drive future growth. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. They may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or geographic markets, and expose our to additional liabilities associated with acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them. In addition, our acquisitions strategy may require us to use a significant portion of our available cash, obtain additional debt or contingent liabilities that may increase leverage, or issue additional equity that may dilute ownership of our stockholders. We may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us. Finally, we may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or arrangements. Negotiations for acquisitions or arrangements that are not ultimately consummated could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. Our competitors may have greater resources than us and therefore be better able to complete acquisitions or may cause the ultimate price we pay for acquisitions to increase. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or arrangements, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. Any such acquisition or arrangement could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to implement successfully our acquisition strategy would limit our potential growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the manufacture of our products could be interrupted. We manufacture and have contracted with third parties to manufacture some of our drug products, including products under the rights acquired from other pharmaceutical companies. Manufacturers are required to adhere to current good manufacturing (“cGMP”) regulations enforced by the FDA or similar regulations required by regulatory agencies in other countries. Compliance with the FDA’s cGMP requirements applies to both drug products seeking regulatory approval and to approved drug products. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with cGMP or similar standards before approval for marketing. Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and obtain approval for our products on a timely and competitive basis, if at all. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulations outside of the United States can result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications and criminal prosecution. In addition, delays or difficulties by us or with our contract manufacturers in producing, packaging, or distributing our products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of other products. In addition to regulatory compliance risks, our contract manufacturers in the United States and in other countries are subject to a wide range of business risks, such as seizure of assets by governmental authorities, natural disasters, and domestic and international economic conditions. Were we or any of our contract manufacturers not 14 Table of Contents able to manufacture our products because of regulatory, business or any other reasons, the manufacture of our products would be interrupted. This could have a negative impact on our sales, financial condition and competitive position. Adverse U.S. and international economic and market conditions may adversely affect our product sales and business. Current U.S. and international economic and market conditions are uncertain. Our revenues and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions, including the challenges faced in the credit markets and financial services industry. If domestic and global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions impacting our customers, including among others, increased taxation, higher unemployment, lower customer confidence in the economy, higher customer debt levels, lower availability of customer credit, higher interest rates and hardships relating to declines in the stock markets, could cause purchases of our products to decline, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions estimated by us, our investors or the securities analysts that follow our common stock, could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Adverse economic and market conditions could also negatively impact our business by negatively impacting the parties with whom we do business, including among others, our business partners (including our customers as well as our alliance partners from whom we receive royalties and milestone payments), our manufacturers and our suppliers. If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages. Even in well designed clinical trials, the potential of a drug to cause serious or widespread personal injury may not be apparent. In addition, the existence of a correlation between use of a drug and serious or widespread personal injury may not be apparent until it has been in widespread use for some period of time. Particularly when a drug is used to treat a disease or condition which is complex and the patients are taking multiple medications, such correlations may indicate, but do not necessarily indicate, that the drug has caused the injury; nevertheless we may decide to, or regulatory authorities may require that we, withdraw the drug from the market and/or we may incur significant costs, including the potential of paying substantial damages. Withdrawals of products from the market and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases, would materially affect our business and results of operation. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In recent years, new legislation has been proposed in the United States at the federal and state levels that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms. On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed and, on December 24, 2009, the Senate passed health care reform legislation that would require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms and a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public health measures. This legislation would also reduce Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers. Given that legislation has not yet been enacted, it is still not possible to determine what, if any impact this legislation may have on the pharmaceutical industry and our business. Further federal and state proposals are likely. 15 Table of Contents However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the potential for adoption of these proposals affects or will affect our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by future health care reforms. Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or data exclusivity rights. A majority of the products we sell have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or data exclusivity rights. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues. Without exclusivity protection, competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. The introduction of competing products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Many of our key processes, opportunities and expenses are a function of existing national and/or local government regulation. Significant changes in regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. The process by which pharmaceutical products are approved is lengthy and highly regulated. Our multi-year clinical trials programs are planned and executed to conform to these regulations, and once begun, can be difficult and expensive to change should the regulations regarding approval of pharmaceutical products significantly change. Failures to comply with the applicable legal requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may result in administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA’s imposition of a hold on clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings, precautions and contraindications. Manufacturers of drug products are required to comply with manufacturing regulations, including current good manufacturing regulations enforced by the FDA and similar regulations enforced by regulatory agencies outside the United States. In addition, we are subject to price control restrictions on our pharmaceutical products in many countries in which we operate. We are also subject to extensive health care marketing and fraud and abuse regulation by the federal and state governments and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, regulations, rules or policies or any other law or governmental regulation, or if interpretations of the foregoing change, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. In addition, we depend on patent law and data exclusivity to keep generic products from reaching the market in our evaluations of the development of our products. In assessing whether we will invest in any development program, or license a product from a third party, we assess the likelihood of patent and/or data exclusivity under the laws and regulations then in effect. If those schemes significantly change in a large market, or across many smaller markets, our ability to protect our investment may be adversely affected. Appropriate tax planning requires that we consider the current and prevailing national and local tax laws and regulations, as well as international tax treaties and arrangements that we enter into with various government authorities. Changes in national/local tax regulations or changes in political situations may limit or eliminate the effects of our tax planning and could result in unanticipated tax expenses. 16 Table of Contents We are involved in various legal proceedings that could adversely affect us. We are involved in several legal proceedings, including those described in Note 21 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Defending against claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other state and federal laws and regulations. Increasingly, states require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs and to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers or funds spent on marketing and promotion of drug products. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the United States. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be involved in infringement actions which are uncertain, costly and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, and we may also become subject to infringement claims by third parties. The outcomes of infringement action are uncertain and infringement actions are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. The cost of such actions as well as the ultimate outcome of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs that do not infringe our patents or produce drugs in countries that do not respect our patents. Existing and future audits by, or other disputes with, taxing authorities may not be resolved in our favor. Our income tax returns are subject to audit in various jurisdictions. Existing and future audits by, or other disputes with, tax authorities may not be resolved in our favor and could have an adverse effect on our reported effective tax rate and after-tax cash flows. We are subject to a consent order with the SEC. We are subject to a consent order with the SEC, which permanently enjoins us from violating securities laws and regulations. The consent order also precludes protection for forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to forward-looking statements we 17 Table of Contents made prior to November 28, 2005. The existence of the permanent injunction under the consent order, and the lack of protection under the safe harbor with respect to forward-looking statements we made prior to November 28, 2005 may limit our ability to defend against future allegations. The current SEC investigation could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. The SEC is conducting an investigation regarding events and circumstances surrounding trading in our common stock and the public release of data from our first pivotal Phase III trial for taribavirin in March 2006. In addition, the SEC requested information regarding our restatement of certain historical financial statements announced in March 2008, data regarding our stock option grants since January 1, 2000 and information about our pursuit in the Delaware Chancery Court of the return of certain bonuses paid to Milan Panic, a former chairman and chief executive officer, and others. In September 2006, our board of directors established the Special Committee to review our historical stock option practices and related accounting. The Special Committee concluded its investigation in January 2007. We have briefed the SEC with the results of the Special Committee’s investigation. We have cooperated fully and will continue to cooperate with the SEC on its investigation. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. In the event that the investigation leads to SEC action against any current or former officer or director, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions) and the trading price of our securities may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have an adverse impact on our business or the trading price of our securities regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. In addition, the SEC inquiry has resulted in the incurrence of significant legal expenses and the diversion of management’s attention from our business, and this may continue, or increase, until the investigation is concluded. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in increased litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and could have a material adverse effect on us. In September 2006, our board of directors appointed a Special Committee, which consisted solely of independent directors, to conduct a review of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting during the period from 1982 through July 2006. The Special Committee identified a number of occasions on which the exercise prices for stock options granted to certain of our directors, officers and employees were set using closing prices of our common stock with dates different than the actual approval dates, resulting in additional compensation charges. To correct these and other accounting errors, we amended our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006 to restate the consolidated financial statements contained in those reports. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. We were named as nominal defendant in three shareholder derivative lawsuits which asserted claims related to our historic stock option practices. To date, these shareholder derivative lawsuits have been dismissed. In addition, the SEC has opened a formal SEC inquiry into our historical stock option grant practices. We cannot assure you that this current litigation, the SEC inquiry or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the Special Committee. The conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in future periods, our stock price could be adversely affected and our ability to prepare complete and accurate financial statements in a timely manner could be adversely affected. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. The material weakness, which arose primarily as a result of our lack of a sufficient complement of personnel in our 18 Table of Contents foreign locations and monitoring controls at the corporate level, is further described in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Because of the foregoing, we concluded that certain financial statements, earnings press releases and similar communications should no longer be relied upon and that certain of our financial statements would need to be restated. We also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2007. As more fully described in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, in 2008 we took steps to remediate this material weakness and to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. If we fail to maintain our disclosure controls and procedures at the reasonable assurance level, our financial statements and related disclosure could contain material misstatements, the preparation and filing of our financial statements and related filings could be delayed, and substantial costs and resources may be required to remediate any weaknesses or deficiencies or to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. If we cannot produce reliable and timely financial statements, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly or we may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 