Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors, either alone or taken together, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. Adverse U.S. and international economic and market conditions may adversely affect our product sales and business. Current U.S. and international economic and market conditions are uncertain. Our revenues and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions, including the challenges faced in 15 Table of Contents the credit markets and financial services industry. If domestic and global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions impacting our customers, including among others, increased taxation, higher unemployment, lower customer confidence in the economy, higher customer debt levels, lower availability of customer credit, higher interest rates and hardships relating to declines in the stock markets, could cause purchases of our products to decline, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions estimated by us, our investors or the securities analysts that follow our common stock, could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Adverse economic and market conditions could also negatively impact our business by negatively impacting the parties with whom we do business, including among others, our business partners (including our customers as well as our alliance partners from whom we receive royalties and milestone payments), our manufacturers and our suppliers. Due to the large portion of our business conducted outside the United States, we have significant foreign currency risk. We sell products in many countries that are susceptible to significant foreign currency risk. In some of these markets we sell products for U.S. Dollars. While this eliminates our direct currency risk in such markets, it increases our risk that we could lose market share to competitors because if a local currency is devalued significantly, it becomes more expensive for customers in that market to purchase our products in U.S. Dollars. If retigabine, taribavirin and other product candidates in development do not become approved and commercially successful products, our ability to generate future growth in revenue and earnings will be adversely affected. We focus our development activities on areas in which we have particular strengths. The outcome of any development program is highly uncertain. Products in clinical trials may fail to yield a commercial product, or a product may be approved by the FDA yet not be a commercial success. Success in preclinical and early stage clinical trials may not necessarily translate into success in large-scale clinical trials. In addition, we or a partner will need to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in order to market retigabine, taribavirin and other product candidates. Even if they appear promising in large-scale Phase III clinical trials, regulatory approval may not be achieved. The results of clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent approval or result in the need for post-marketing studies. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and FDA review of a new application may cause delays or rejection. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indications for which we can market a product or onerous risk management programs, thereby reducing the size of the market that we would be able to address or our product may not be chosen by physicians for use by their patients. There is no guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the needed regulatory requirements, and we may not be able to generate significant revenue, if any, from retigabine, taribavirin and other product candidates. We may be unable to identify, acquire and integrate acquisition targets successfully. In 2008, we made three acquisitions. Part of our strategy includes acquiring and integrating complementary businesses, products, technologies or other assets, and forming strategic alliances, joint ventures and other business combinations, to help drive future growth. Such acquisitions or arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive, and may present numerous challenges and risks including: • difficulties in assimilating any acquired workforce and merging operations; • attrition and the loss of key personnel; 16 Table of Contents • an acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement may not further our business strategy as anticipated; • we may overpay for a business, product technology or other asset or arrangement, or the economic or market conditions or assumptions underlying our strategic decision may change; • we may encounter difficulties entering and competing in new product or geographic markets, and we may face increased competition; • we may experience significant problems or liabilities, including increased intellectual property and employment related litigation exposure, associated with acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement; • in connection with any such acquisition or arrangement, we may need to use a significant portion of our available cash, issue additional equity securities that would dilute the then-current stockholders’ percentage ownership or incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities, or we may not be able to successfully finance such acquisition or arrangement; and • the related purchase price may require us to record material amounts of goodwill, charges and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and charges and amortization expense in future periods. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or arrangements that are not ultimately consummated. We compete for acquisition candidates or arrangements with other entities, some of which have financial and other resources that greatly exceed ours. Negotiations for acquisitions or arrangements that are not ultimately consummated could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or arrangements, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. Any such acquisition or arrangement could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to implement successfully our acquisition strategy would limit our potential growth and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages. Even in well designed clinical trials, the potential of a drug to cause serious or widespread personal injury may not be apparent. In addition, the existence of a correlation between use of a drug and serious or widespread personal injury may not be apparent until it has been in widespread use for some period of time. Particularly when a drug is used to treat a disease or condition which is complex and the patients are taking multiple medications, such correlations may indicate, but do not necessarily indicate, that the drug has caused the injury; nevertheless we may decide to, or regulatory authorities may require that we, withdraw the drug from the market and/or we may incur significant costs, including the potential of paying substantial damages. Withdrawals of products from the market and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases, would materially affect our business and results of operation. If we, our partners or licensees cannot successfully develop or obtain future products and commercialize those products, our growth would be delayed. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability or the ability of our partners or licensees to develop or obtain and commercialize new products and new formulations of, or indications for, current products. We are engaged in an active development program involving compounds which we may commercially develop in the future. Partners or licensees may also help us develop these and other product candidates in the future and are responsible for developing other product candidates that have been licensed to or acquired by them. The process of 17 Table of Contents successfully commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we, our partners or our licensees will be able to develop or acquire new products, successfully complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals to use these products for proposed or new clinical indications, manufacture the potential products in compliance with regulatory requirements or in commercial volumes, or gain market acceptance for such products. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. It may be necessary for us to enter into other licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies in order to market effectively any new products or new indications for existing products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into such licensing arrangements on terms favorable to us or at all. There can be no assurance that the clinical trials of any of our product candidates, including retigabine and taribavirin, will be successful, that the product candidates will be granted approval to be marketed for any of the indications being sought or that any of the product candidates will result in a commercially successful product. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in future periods, our stock price could be adversely affected and our ability to prepare complete and accurate financial statements in a timely manner could be adversely affected. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. The material weakness, which arose primarily as a result of our lack of a sufficient complement of personnel in our foreign locations and monitoring controls at the corporate level, is further described in Item 9A of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Because of the foregoing, we concluded that certain financial statements, earnings press releases and similar communications should no longer be relied upon and that certain of our financial statements would need to be restated. We also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2007. As more fully described in Item 9A of the annual report on Form 10-K, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we took steps to remediate this material weakness and to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. If we fail to maintain our disclosure controls and procedures at the reasonable assurance level, our financial statements and related disclosure could contain material misstatements, the preparation and filing of our financial statements and related filings could be delayed, and substantial costs and resources may be required to remediate any weaknesses or deficiencies or to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. If we cannot produce reliable and timely financial statements, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly or we may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. The results from the interim analyses of our Phase IIb study for taribavirin may not be predictive of the final results of the 72-week Phase IIb study or of any subsequent clinical trial necessary for approval of taribavirin. We have reported results of the interim analyses (week 12 and week 48) of the 72-week taribavirin Phase IIb study (see Part II, Item 7, Products in Development). These results may not be predictive of the final results of the full 72-week study or of any subsequent clinical trial necessary for the approval of taribavirin. Thus we give no assurance that taribavirin will ultimately meet its clinical efficacy or safety endpoints, that we will conduct additional trials necessary for approval or that, if we conduct such additional trials, the results will lead to approval of taribavirin by the FDA or similar authority or any foreign government. The current SEC investigation could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. The SEC is conducting an investigation regarding events and circumstances surrounding trading in our common stock and the public release of data from our first pivotal Phase III trial for taribavirin in March 2006. In addition, the SEC requested information regarding our restatement of certain historical financial statements announced in March 2008, data regarding our stock option grants since January 1, 2000 and information about our 18 Table of Contents pursuit in the Delaware Chancery Court of the return of certain bonuses paid to Milan Panic, a former chairman and chief executive officer, and others. In September 2006, our board of directors established the Special Committee to review our historical stock option practices and related accounting. The Special Committee concluded its investigation in January 2007. We have briefed the SEC with the results of the Special Committee’s investigation. We have cooperated fully and will continue to cooperate with the SEC on its investigation. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. In the event that the investigation leads to SEC action against any current or former officer or director, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions) and the trading price of our securities may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have an adverse impact on our business or the trading price of our securities regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. In addition, the SEC inquiry has resulted in the incurrence of significant legal expenses and the diversion of management’s attention from our business, and this may continue, or increase, until the investigation is concluded. Third parties may be able to sell generic forms of our products or block the sales of our products if our intellectual property rights or data exclusivity rights do not sufficiently protect us; patent rights of third parties may also be asserted against us. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful exclusivity protection for our products and product candidates in key markets throughout the world via patent protection and/or data exclusivity protection. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our products from generic substitution by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents, effectively maintained as trade secrets or protected by data exclusivity. However, our currently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents. Any patent issued may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing generic substitutes for our products. Lastly, data exclusivity schemes vary from country to country and may be limited or eliminated as governments seek to reduce pharmaceutical costs by increasing the speed and ease of approval of generic products. In order to protect or enforce patent and/or data exclusivity rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, and we may be similarly sued by others. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property and data exclusivity actions are costly and divert technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceeding, resulting in a finding of non-infringement or invalidity of our patents, or a lack of protection via data exclusivity, may allow the entry of generic substitutes for our products. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with such litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during such litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our securities. The existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs that do not infringe our patents or produce drugs in countries that do not respect our patents. No patent can protect its holder from a claim of infringement of another patent. Therefore, our patent position cannot and does not provide an assurance that the manufacture, sale or use of products patented by us would not infringe a patent right of another. While we know of no actual or threatened claim of infringement that would be material to us, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted. If such a claim is asserted, there can be no assurance that the resolution of the claim would permit us to continue producing the relevant product on commercially reasonable terms. 19 Table of Contents Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or data exclusivity rights. Some of the products we sell have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or data exclusivity rights. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues. Without exclusivity protection, competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. The introduction of competing products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to uncertainty related to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies. The levels at which government authorities, private health insurers, HMOs and other organizations reimburse the cost of drugs and treatments related to those drugs will impact the successful commercialization of our drugs. We cannot be sure that reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere will be available for any drugs we may develop or, if already available, will not be decreased in the future. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our drugs. If reimbursement is not available or is available only on a limited basis, we may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on the manufacture and commercialization of existing and future drugs. Third-party payers may not establish and maintain price levels sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development or our continued manufacture and sale of existing drug products. The matters relating to the Special Committee’s review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in increased litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and could have a material adverse effect on us. In September 2006, our board of directors appointed a Special Committee, which consisted solely of independent directors, to conduct a review of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting during the period from 1982 through July 2006. The Special Committee identified a number of occasions on which the exercise prices for stock options granted to certain of our directors, officers and employees were set using closing prices of our common stock with dates different than the actual approval dates, resulting in additional compensation charges. To correct these and other accounting errors, we amended our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006 to restate the consolidated financial statements contained in those reports. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. We are a nominal defendant in three shareholder derivative lawsuits which assert claims related to our historic stock option practices. In addition, the SEC has opened a formal inquiry into our historical stock option grant practices. We cannot assure you that this current litigation, the SEC inquiry or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the Special Committee. The conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If competitors develop more effective or less costly drugs for our target indications, our business could be seriously harmed. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing products that are more effective than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. Progress by other researchers in areas similar to those being explored by us may result in further competitive challenges. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products. They may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. 20 Table of Contents Obtaining necessary government approvals is time consuming and not assured. FDA approval must be obtained in the United States and approval must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical products for use by humans. Obtaining FDA approval for new products and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Numerous requirements must be satisfied, including preliminary testing programs on animals and subsequent clinical testing programs on humans, to establish product safety and efficacy. No assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in the United States, or any other country, of any application we may submit for the commercial sale of a new or existing drug or compound. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, or that those drugs or compounds will be commercially successful. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations could prevent or delay us from obtaining future regulatory approvals or jeopardize existing approvals, which could significantly increase our costs associated with obtaining approvals and negatively impact our market position. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the manufacture of our products could be interrupted. We manufacture and have contracted with third parties to manufacture some of our drug products, including products under the rights acquired from other pharmaceutical companies. Manufacturers are required to adhere to current good manufacturing (“cGMP”) regulations enforced by the FDA or similar regulations required by regulatory agencies in other countries. Compliance with the FDA’s cGMP requirements applies to both drug products seeking regulatory approval and to approved drug products. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with cGMP or similar standards before approval for marketing. Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and obtain approval for our products on a timely and competitive basis, if at all. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulations outside of the United States can result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications and criminal prosecution. In addition, delays or difficulties by us or with our contract manufacturers in producing, packaging, or distributing our products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of other products. In addition to regulatory compliance risks, our contract manufacturers in the United States and in other countries are subject to a wide range of business risks, such as seizure of assets by governmental authorities, natural disasters, and domestic and international economic conditions. Were we or any of our contract manufacturers not able to manufacture our products because of regulatory, business or any other reasons, the manufacture of our products would be interrupted. This could have a negative impact on our sales, financial condition and competitive position. Many of our key processes, opportunities and expenses are a function of existing national and/or local government regulation. Significant changes in regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. The process by which pharmaceutical products are approved is lengthy and highly regulated. Our multi-year clinical trials programs are planned and executed to conform to these regulations, and once begun, can be difficult and expensive to change should the regulations regarding approval of pharmaceutical products significantly change. In addition, we depend on patent law and data exclusivity to keep generic products from reaching the market in our evaluations of the development of our products. In assessing whether we will invest in any development program, or license a product from a third party, we assess the likelihood of patent and/or data exclusivity under the 21 Table of Contents laws and regulations then in effect. If those schemes significantly change in a large market, or across many smaller markets, our ability to protect our investment may be adversely affected. Appropriate tax planning requires that we consider the current and prevailing national and local tax laws and regulations, as well as international tax treaties and arrangements that we enter into with various government authorities. Changes in national/local tax regulations or changes in political situations may limit or eliminate the effects of our tax planning and could result in unanticipated tax expenses. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the United States. Including ribavirin royalties, approximately 63% of our revenues from continuing operations were generated outside the United States during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. We sell our pharmaceutical products in more than 40 countries around the world and employ approximately 1,834 individuals in countries other than the United States. The international scope of our operations may lead to volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our operations because of, but not limited to, the following: • difficulties and costs of staffing, severance and benefit payments and managing international operations; • exchange controls, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • price controls restrictions on products sold in the relevant countries; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; • market share and product sales in certain markets being dependent on actions by and relationships with key distributors; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables in and moving cash out of certain geographic regions; • the need for a significant amount of available cash from operations to fund our business in a number of geographic and economically diverse locations; and • political, social and economic instability in emerging markets in which we currently operate. If the counterparties to our convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions do not fulfill their obligations, if and when they occur, such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and result in stockholder dilution. In connection with the issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions with certain financial institutions, each of which we refer to as counterparty. The convertible notes hedge is comprised of purchased call options that are expected to reduce our exposure to the settlement value (potential cash payments or issuance of common stock, or a combination thereof) required to be incurred by us upon the conversion of the notes. The call options may be settled in cash, shares, or a combination thereof, at the option of the company. We have also entered into respective warrant transactions with the counterparties pursuant to which we will have sold to each counterparty warrants for the purchase of shares of our common stock. Together, each of the note hedges and warrant transactions are expected to provide us with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share. Although we believe the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions, there are no assurances that the counterparties will be able to perform their respective obligations under the agreements we have with each of them. Any net exposure related to failure of the counterparties to perform their obligations under the agreements we have with them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and depending on how we settle our obligations, could result in stockholder dilution. 22 Table of Contents We are involved in various legal proceedings that could adversely affect us. We are involved in several legal proceedings, including those described in Note 19 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. Defending against claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on us. Existing and future audits by, or other disputes with, taxing authorities may not be resolved in our favor. Our income tax returns are subject to audit in various jurisdictions. Existing and future audits by, or other disputes with, tax authorities may not be resolved in our favor and could have an adverse effect on our reported effective tax rate and after-tax cash flows. Our stockholder rights plan and anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents could provide our board of directors with the ability to delay or prevent a change in control of us. Our stockholder rights plan, provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law provide our board of directors with the ability to deter hostile takeovers or delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, approximately 10 million shares of preferred stock, 200 million shares of common stock and securities convertible into either shares of common stock or preferred stock. The board of directors can also use issuances of preferred or common stock to deter a hostile takeover or change in control of the Company. We are subject to a consent order with the SEC. We are subject to a consent order with the SEC, which permanently enjoins us from violating securities laws and regulations. The consent order also precludes protection for forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to forward-looking statements we made prior to November 28, 2005. The existence of the permanent injunction under the consent order, and the lack of protection under the safe harbor with respect to forward-looking statements we made prior to November 28, 2005 may limit our ability to defend against future allegations. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other state and federal laws and regulations. Increasingly, states require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs and to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers or funds spent on marketing and promotion of drug products. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. If we do not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring plans, our business prospects may suffer and our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our prior restructuring plans were intended to improve operational efficiencies and our competitiveness. If we are unable to realize the benefits from our restructuring plans, our business prospects may suffer and our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 