ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors that we believe are most relevant to our business. These are factors which, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ significantly from anticipated or historical results. In addition to understanding the key risks described below, investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors, and consequently, the following is not a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC. Risks Related to our Business Residential and commercial real estate loan delinquencies, defaults, and credit losses could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business. We assume credit risk with respect to residential and commercial real estate loans primarily through the ownership of credit-enhancement securities (CES) backed by residential and commercial real estate loans, collateralized debt obligation (CDO) CES backed by residential and commercial securities, and through residential and commercial real estate loans. Residential and commercial CES have below investment-grade credit ratings and, correspondingly, a high degree of credit risk with respect to the residential and commercial real estate loans within the securitizations that issued these securities. We also assume credit risk through the residential, commercial, and CDO investment grade securities (which we refer to collectively as IGS) we own. Credit losses on residential real estate loans can occur for many reasons, including: poor origination practices; fraud; faulty appraisals; documentation errors; poor underwriting; legal errors; poor servicing practices; weak economic conditions; increases in payments required to be made by borrowers; declines in the value of homes; earthquakes and other natural events; over-leveraging of the borrower; changes in legal protections for lenders; and personal events affecting borrowers, such as reduction in income, job loss, divorce or health problems. If the U.S. economy or the housing market continue to weaken, our credit losses could increase beyond levels that we originally anticipated or anticipate. Rising interest rates may increase the credit risks associated with residential real estate loans. The interest rate is adjustable for most of the loans securitized by securitization entities we have sponsored and for a portion of the loans underlying residential and CDO CES we have acquired from securitizations sponsored by others. Accordingly, when short-term interest rates rise, required monthly payments from homeowners will rise under the terms of these adjustable-rate mortgages, and this may increase borrowers’ delinquencies and defaults. Credit losses on commercial real estate loans can occur for many of the reasons noted above for residential real estate loans. Losses on commercial real estate loans can also occur for other reasons including decreases in the net operating income from the underlying property, which could be adversely affected by a weakened U.S. economy. Moreover, many commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and, therefore, the borrower’s ability to repay the principal when due may depend upon the ability of the borrower to refinance or sell the property at maturity. Additional risks associated with commercial real estate loans are discussed below. The IGS we hold also have credit-related risks. These assets initially received investment-grade ratings, but these initial ratings do not ensure that these securities will be free from credit losses, especially in a housing or economic downturn. We attempt to manage these risks by periodically evaluating our investments for impairment indicators and establishing reserves for credit and other risks based upon our assessment of these risks. However, the amount of capital and cash reserves that we hold to help us manage credit and other risks may prove to be insufficient to protect us from earnings volatility, reductions or suspensions in regular dividends, and liquidity issues. If these increased credit losses are greater than we anticipated and we need to increase our credit reserves or in the event that assets which have declined in value are deemed to be other-than-temporarily 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS impaired, our GAAP earnings might be reduced. Increased credit losses may also adversely affect our cash flows, dividend distribution requirements and payments, asset fair values, access to short-term borrowings, and our ability to securitize assets. The nature of the securities we hold exposes us to concentrated credit risk that could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business. Our residential and commercial CES have concentrated risks with respect to residential and commercial real estate loans, respectively. In general, losses on an asset securing a residential or commercial real estate loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the owner of the property (i.e., the owner will first lose the equity invested in the property) and, thereafter, by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the first-loss CES holder, and then by holders of more senior CES. In the event the losses incurred upon default on the loan exceed any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, and classes of securities junior to those in which we invest (if any), we will not be able to recover all of our principal investment in the securities we hold. In addition, if the underlying properties have been overvalued by the originating appraiser or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related ABS, then the first-loss securities may suffer a total loss of principal, followed by losses on the second-loss and then third-loss securities (or other residential and commercial CES or residential and commercial IGS) in which we invest (or have an indirect interest), which have effectively become the first-loss position behind the more senior securities. The nature of the assets underlying some of the securities we hold could increase the credit risk of those securities, which, in turn, could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, and access to liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business. For certain types of loans underlying our CES, the loan rate or borrower payment rate may increase over time, increasing the potential for default. For example, a portion of the securities we acquire, or have an indirect interest in through our investment in the Acacia entities we sponsor (sometimes collectively referred to as Acacia), are backed by residential real estate loans that have negative amortization features. The rate at which interest accrues on these loans may change more frequently or to a greater extent than payment adjustments on an adjustable-rate loan, and adjustments of monthly payments may be subject to limitations or may be limited by the borrower’s option to pay less than the full accrual rate. As a result, the amount of interest accruing on the remaining principal balance of the loans at the applicable adjustable mortgage loan rate may exceed the amount of the monthly payment. This is particularly a risk in a rising interest rate environment. Negative amortization occurs when the resulting excess is added to the unpaid principal balance of the related adjustable mortgage loan. For certain loans that have a negative amortization feature, the required monthly payment is increased after a specified number of months or after a maximum amount of negative amortization has occurred in order to amortize fully the loan by the end of its original term. Other negative amortizing loans limit the amount by which the monthly payment can be increased, which results in a larger final payment at maturity. As a result, negatively amortizing loans have performance characteristics similar to those of balloon loans. Negative amortization may result in increases in delinquencies, loan loss severity, and loan defaults, which may, in turn, result in payment delays and credit losses on our investments. Other types of loans to which we are exposed, such as hybrid loans and teaser-rate adjustable-rate loans, may also have greater credit risk than more traditional mortgage loans. We credit-enhance commercial real estate loans and hold commercial CES, which may have significant credit and other risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results. The commercial real estate assets we own or in which we have an indirect interest through our investment in Acacia entities may be subject to significant credit and other risks, including environmental and legal risks. The net operating income and fair values of commercial real estate properties may fluctuate with economic cycles and as a result of other factors, so that debt service coverage may be unstable. The value of the property may not support the value of the loan if there is a default. Commercial real estate loans are particularly sensitive to changes in the local economy, so even minor local adverse economic events may adversely affect the performance of commercial real estate assets. Many commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and, therefore, the timely recovery of principal is dependent on the borrower’s ability to refinance or sell the property at maturity. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS The prices of commercial CES are more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments than more highly rated real estate securities. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of commercial CES because of increasing concerns regarding the ability of obligors of loans underlying ABS to continue to make principal and interest payments. For some types of loans in which we have had an economic interest in the past and may again in the future, the commercial real estate is in transition, such as a former office building that is in the process of being converted into condominiums. These loans entail higher risks than traditional commercial property loans made against stabilized properties. Initial debt service coverage ratios, loan-to-value ratios, and other indicators of credit quality for these loans may not meet standard market criteria for stabilized commercial real estate loans. The underlying properties may not transition or stabilize as expected. The personal guarantees and forms of cross-collateralization that are secured in connection with some of these loans may not be effective. In addition, we own some mezzanine loans that are not secured by a direct lien on the underlying property. Our commercial loans are illiquid; if we choose to sell them, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a satisfactory price. Financing these loans may be difficult, and may become more difficult if credit quality deteriorates. Mezzanine loans, distressed assets, and loan participations have concentrated credit, servicing, and other risks. We have in the past directly originated some of our commercial loans and participated in the origination of others, and may do so again in the future. This may expose us to credit, legal, and other risks that may be greater than is usually present with acquired loans. We may incur losses on commercial real estate loans and securities for reasons not necessarily related to an adverse change in the performance of the property. This includes bankruptcy by the owner of the property, issues regarding the form of ownership of the property, poor property management, origination errors, inaccurate appraisals, fraud, and non-timely actions by special servicers. We review the underlying loan files prior to acquiring residential and commercial CES but our review may not uncover these or other issues at that time. By the time these problems become apparent, we may have little or no recourse to the issuer of the securities and we may incur losses as a result. The timing of credit losses can harm our economic returns. The timing of credit losses can be a material factor in our economic returns from residential and commercial loans and securities. If unanticipated losses occur within the first few years after a loan is originated or a securitization is completed, those losses could have a greater negative impact on our investment returns than unanticipated losses on more mature loans or securities. In addition, higher levels of delinquencies and cumulative credit losses within a securitized loan pool can delay our receipt of the principal and interest that is due to us under the terms of the securities backed by that pool. This would also lower our economic returns. The timing of credit losses could be affected by new legislation or legal actions that allow for the modification of loans. It is difficult to anticipate what, if any, changes to underlying loans would be allowed and to determine the impact on these changes to ultimate credit losses or changes in interest income on our investments. The securities and loans we own are likely to lead to variable returns. We actively manage the risks associated with acquiring, holding, and disposing of real estate loans and securities. No amount of risk management or mitigation, however, can change the variable nature of the cash flows, fair values of, and financial results generated by these loans and securities. Changes in the credit performance or the prepayments on these real estate loans and the loans underlying these securities and changes in interest rates impact the cash flows on these securities, and the impact could be significant for our securities with concentrated risks. Changes in cash flows lead to changes in our return and also to potential variability in reported income. The revenue recognized on most of our assets is based on an estimate of the yield over the remaining life of the asset. Thus, changes in our estimates of expected cash flow from an asset will result in changes in our reported earnings on that asset. We may be forced to recognize adverse changes 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS in expected future cash flows as a current expense, further adding to earnings volatility. For other assets and some liabilities, our revenue and income is affected by changes in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, which may further accentuate our earnings volatility. For other assets, our revenue and income, if any, are based on changes in the fair value of the asset. As market conditions, liquidity, perceptions, supply and demand, and the fundamentals of each asset change, the fair values can vary widely, causing volatility in our reported earnings. Fair values for illiquid assets can be difficult to ascertain accurately, which may also lead to volatility and uncertainty of earnings. Changes in the fair values of our assets and liabilities can have various negative effects on us, reduced earnings, increased earnings volatility, and volatility in our book value. Fair values for our assets, liabilities, and hedges can be volatile. The fair values can change rapidly and significantly and changes can result from changes in interest rates, perceived risk, supply and demand, projected cash flows and prepayments and credit performance. A decrease in fair value may not necessarily be the result of a deterioration in future cash flows. For GAAP purposes, we mark-to-market some, but not all, of our consolidated assets and liabilities through our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, valuation adjustments on certain assets and many of our derivatives are reflected in our consolidated statement of income. As a result, assets that are funded with certain liabilities and interest-rate matched with certain liabilities and hedges may have differing mark-to-market treatment than the liability or hedge. If we sell an asset that has not been marked to market through our consolidated statement of income at a reduced market price relative to its basis, our reported earnings will be reduced. A decrease in the fair value of the securities we own may result in a reduction in our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply, and could result in a negative book value. Reporting a low or negative book value could have adverse effects even if that the book value is not indicative of the actual value of our net investments in assets and securitization entities. The adverse effects include the inability to meet or agree upon covenants with counterparties or to enter into derivative contracts, and a reduction in the market price of our stock. Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted a new accounting standard, Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial (FAS 159), which allows us to MTM both the consolidated assets and liabilities of Acacia. FAS 159 provides for a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings on the balance sheet on January 1, 2008 for the unrealized gains or losses on Acacia assets and liabilities at that time. We expect the adoption of FAS 159 will reduce the magnitude of the disparity that existed between the value of Acacia under GAAP presentation and the economic value of Acacia at December 31, 2007. Even following the adoption of FAS 159, however, there will likely be significant differences between the value of Acacia under GAAP presentation and the economic value of Acacia. Discrepancies arise as a result of market dynamics and the limitations of the measurement techniques required by FAS 159. In addition to affecting our GAAP balance sheet, the adoption of FAS 159 with respect to the Acacia assets and liabilities will also affect our income statements, as we will be required to record any net changes in the fair value those assets and liabilities in any given period. Fair values for illiquid assets can be difficult to ascertain accurately, which may lead to volatility and uncertainty of earnings. Moreover, on January 1, 2008, the fair values of the Acacia liabilities used for GAAP purposes were, in our view, depressed relative to the paired collateral asset values. If the fair values of these liabilities were to increase, these changes would appear on our GAAP income statements as negative MTM adjustments. Interest rate fluctuations can have various negative effects on us and could lead to reduced earnings and increased earnings volatility. Changes in interest rates, the interrelationships between various interest rates, and interest rate volatility could have negative effects on our earnings, the fair value of our assets and liabilities, loan prepayment rates, and our access to liquidity. Changes in interest rates can also harm the credit performance of our assets. We seek to hedge some but not all interest rate risks. Our hedging may not work effectively, or we may change our hedging strategies or the degree or type of interest rate risk we assume. A portion of our equity-funded assets have adjustable-rate coupons. The cash flows we receive from these assets may vary as a function of interest rates, as do the GAAP earnings generated by these assets. We also 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS own debt-funded loans and securities which we hold as inventory prior to sale to a securitization entity or as a longer term investment. We fund these assets with equity and with floating rate debt. To the extent these assets have fixed or hybrid interest rates (or are adjustable with an adjustment period longer than our short-term debt), an interest rate mismatch exists and we will earn less (and fair values may decline) if interest rates rise. We usually, but not always, seek to mitigate interest rate mismatches for these assets with a hedging program using interest rate swaps and futures. Interest rate changes have diverse and sometimes unpredictable effects on the prepayment rates of real estate loans. Changes in prepayment rates can lower the returns we earn from our assets, diminish or delay our cash flows, reduce the fair value of our assets, and decrease our liquidity. Except with respect to our adjustable-rate assets, higher interest rates generally reduce the fair value of most of our assets. This may affect our earnings results, reduce our ability to re-securitize or sell our assets, or reduce our liquidity. Higher interest rates could reduce the ability of borrowers to make interest payments or to refinance their loans. Higher interest rates could reduce property values and increased credit losses could result. Higher interest rates could reduce mortgage originations, thus reducing our opportunities to acquire new assets, and possibly driving asset acquisition prices higher. When short-term interest rates are high relative to long-term interest rates, an increase in adjustable-rate residential loan prepayments may occur, which would likely reduce our returns from owning adjustable-rate residential whole loans. If short-term interest rates fall, our premium amortization expense will increase on loans acquired by Sequoia prior to July 2004, which are reported on our consolidated balance sheet. Due to the GAAP principle applied to these adjustable-rate loans, the amortization expense for the current period is a function of actual and projected prepayments and the current LIBOR interest rate. During a period of rapidly falling rates, the effect that the interest rate has on the amortized amount becomes the more significant factor and will increase the amount amortized thereby decreasing our reported income for that period, all other factors being equal. Credit ratings of debt securities may not accurately reflect the risks associated with those debt securities. Rating agencies rate debt securities based upon their assessment of the safety of the receipt of principal and interest payments. Rating agencies do not consider the risks of fluctuations in fair value or other factors that may influence the value of debt securities and, therefore, the assigned credit rating may not fully reflect the true risks of an investment in securities. Also, rating agencies may fail to make timely adjustments to initial credit ratings based on recently available data or changes in economic outlook or may otherwise fail to make changes in credit ratings in response to subsequent events, so that our investments may be better or worse than the ratings indicate. We try to reduce the impact of the risk that a credit rating may not accurately reflect the risks associated with a particular debt security by not relying solely on credit ratings as the indicator of the quality of an investment. We make our acquisition decisions after factoring in other information. However, our assessment of the quality of an investment may also prove to be inaccurate and we may incur credit losses in excess of our initial expectations. Credit rating agencies may change their methods of evaluating credit risk and determining ratings on securities backed by real estate loans and securities. These changes may occur quickly and often. The market’s ability to understand and absorb these changes, and the impact to the securitization market in general, are difficult to predict. Such changes will have an impact on the amount securities that will be available to us either by the level of securitization and the various sizes of the investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities that are created in the future. Further downgrades in the credit ratings of bond insurers or any downgrades in the credit ratings of mortgage insurers could increase our credit risk, reduce our cash flows, or otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. Some of the securities held by us through our Acacia entities as well some of the securities held by us at Redwood are insured by bond insurers such as Ambac Financial Group Inc., MBIA Inc, and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., which are commonly known as the monoline insurers. These monoline insurers historically have had AAA credit ratings and this credit rating has been passed on to any bonds that they 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS insure. The high number of credit downgrades and other market events in the second half of 2007 revealed that these monoline insurers have greater credit risk exposure than previously realized and the credit ratings of a number of these insurers have been downgraded as a result. Any decline in the credit rating of a monoline insurer generally results in a corresponding decline in the credit ratings of the securities insured by that insurer. Downgrades on securities could have an adverse effect on the value of some of our investments and our cash flows from those investments, particularly our equity investments in Acacia. The underlying documents of each Acacia securitization entity state that certain average rating levels must be met, and if not met on the securities held by the entity, then cash that would otherwise be distributed to the equity holders or the lower-rated debt holders, would instead be distributed to the more senior debt holders. Our investment in Acacia is primarily in the equity in the securitization entities, and the vast number of downgrades that rating agencies reported in late 2007 and early 2008 are likely to cause some of the Acacia entities to fail this average rating test, which will, in turn, adversely affect our cash flows on our investments in those entities. Some of the loans held by our Sequoia securitization entities, or in which we have an indirect interest through securities we hold through Acacia or at Redwood, are insured in part by mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance protects the lender or other holder of a loan, up to a specified amount, in the event the borrower defaults on the loan. Relatively few of the mortgages we hold through Sequoia are insured in this manner, as mortgage insurance generally is required only when the principal amount of the loan at the time of origination is greater than 80% of the value of the property (loan-to-value), and the loan-to-value for most of the loans we hold through Sequoia are below this 80% threshold. Nonetheless, any inability of the mortgage insurers to pay in full the insured portion of the loans that we hold would adversely affect the value of those loans, which could increase our credit risk, reduce our cash flows, or otherwise adversely affect our business. We have significant credit risk in California and may be disproportionately affected by an economic slowdown, natural disaster, or any other adverse event specific to California. We also have credit risk in other states and our business may be harmed by an economic slowdown, natural disaster, or any other adverse event in an area where do business. We have a concentration of residential and commercial real estate loans secured by property in California. In addition, a significant number of residential and commercial real estate loans that underlie the securities we own are secured by property in California. We have made efforts to mitigate the risks associated with geographic concentration. We have residential credit risk in all states and we do not have more than 1% of our residential loans in any one zip code. We also have commercial credit risk in most states. Nonetheless, we still have a significantly higher exposure in California and any event that adversely affected the California real estate market could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our business. A decline in the economy or difficulties in the real estate markets are likely to cause a decline in the value of residential and commercial properties. This, in turn, will increase the risk of delinquency, default, and foreclosure on real estate loans underlying our securities. This may then adversely affect our credit loss experience and other aspects of our business, including our ability to securitize real estate loans and securities. The occurrence of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake, tornado, hurricane, or a flood) may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate and would likely reduce the value of the properties collateralizing the mortgage loans we own or those underlying the securities we own. Since certain natural disasters may not typically be covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by borrowers, the borrowers may have to pay for repairs due to the disasters. Borrowers may not repair their property or may stop paying their mortgage loans under those circumstances, especially if the property is damaged. This would likely cause foreclosures to increase and lead to higher credit losses on our loans or on the pool of mortgage loans underlying the securities in which we provide credit-enhancement. We assume credit risk on a variety of residential and commercial mortgage assets primarily through our investments in Acacia entities. The Acacia entities we sponsor own investment-grade and non-investment-grade securities (typically rated AAA through B, and in a second-loss position or better, or otherwise effectively more senior in the credit structure as compared to a first-loss residential CES or equivalent) issued by residential and commercial real 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS estate loan securitization entities. Acacia also owns CDO securitiescreated and issued by others and these securities usually have concentrated risks with respect to residential and commercial real estate. Acacia’s securities are reported as part of our consolidated securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheets. Generally, we do not control or influence the underwriting, servicing, management, or loss mitigation efforts with respect to the underlying assets in these securities. Some of the securities Acacia owns are backed by subprime loans and alt-a loans that have substantially higher risk characteristics than prime-quality loans. These lower-quality loans can be expected to have higher rates of delinquency and loss, and losses to Acacia (and thus Redwood as owner of the Acacia CDO equity securities) could occur. Some of the assets Acacia has acquired are investment-grade and non-investment-grade residential loan securities from the Sequoia securitization entities we have sponsored. Although we may have a limited degree of control or influence over the selection and management of the loans underlying Sequoia securitizations, we believe the possibility of loss on these assets remains approximately the same as it is for securities issued from securitizations of equivalent-quality loans that we did not sponsor. If the pools of residential loans underlying any of these securitizations were to experience poor credit results, Acacia’s securities could have their credit ratings down-graded, could suffer declines in fair value, or could experience principal losses. If any of these events occurs, it would likely reduce our long-term returns and near-term cash flows from the Acacia CDO equity securities we have acquired, and may also reduce our ability to sponsor Acacia transactions in the future. We may securitize first-loss residential and commercial CES in Acacia in the future, which would add to the risks we undertake in our Acacia program. Our efforts to manage credit risk may not be successful in limiting delinquencies and defaults in underlying loans or losses on our investments. Despite our efforts to manage credit risk, there are many aspects of credit risk that we cannot control. Our quality control and loss mitigation operations may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults, and losses. Our underwriting reviews may not be effective. The securitizations in which we have invested may not receive funds that we believe are due from mortgage insurance companies and other counterparties. Loan servicing companies may not cooperate with our loss mitigation efforts, or those efforts may be ineffective. Service providers to securitizations, such as trustees, bond insurance providers, and custodians, may not perform in a manner that promotes our interests. The value of the homes collateralizing residential loans may decline. The value of the commercial properties collateralizing commercial loans may decline. The frequency of default and the loss severity on loans upon default may be greater than we anticipate. Interest-only loans, negative amortization loans, adjustable-rate loans, loans with balances over $1 million, reduced documentation loans, subprime loans, alt-a loans, second lien loans, loans in certain locations, and loans that are partially collateralized by non-real estate assets may have increased risks and severity of loss. As loans become real estate owned, we bear the risk of not being able to sell the property and recovering our investment. Changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws, tax laws, regulation on the mortgage industry, and other laws may exacerbate loan losses. Future changes in rules that would enable loans owned by a securitization entity to be modified may not be beneficial to our interests if the modifications reduce the interest we earn and increase the eventual severity of a loss. In some states and circumstances, the securitizations in which we invest have recourse as owner of the loan against the borrower’s other assets and income in the event of loan default; however, in most cases, the value of the underlying property will be the sole effective source of funds for any recoveries. Other changes or actions by judges or legislators regarding mortgage loans and contracts including the voiding of certain portions of these agreements may reduce our earnings, impair our ability to mitigate losses, or increase the probability and severity of losses. The expansion of our loss mitigation efforts as we grow our portfolio will increase our operating costs and the expanded loss mitigation efforts may not reduce our future credit losses. Our risk management efforts may not effectively mitigate the risks we seek to manage. We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if we are unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor, and mitigate operations risks, credit risks, interest rate risks, prepayment risks, liquidity risks, and other market risks related to our business, assets, and liabilities. We actively manage our risks but our risk management policies, procedures, and techniques many not be sufficient to mitigate the risks we have identified or to identify additional risks to which we are subject or may be subject in the future. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services from third-party service providers, which may harm our results of operations. Our loans and loans underlying securities are serviced by third-party service providers. These arrangements allow us to increase the volume of the loans we purchase and securitize without incurring the expenses associated with servicing operations. Should a servicer experience financial difficulties, it may not be able to perform these obligations. Servicers who have sought bankruptcy protection may, due to application of provisions of bankruptcy law, not be required to advance those amounts. Even if a servicer were able to advance amounts in respect of delinquent loans, its obligation to make the advances may be limited to the extent that is does not expect to recover the advances due to the deteriorating credit of the delinquent loans. In addition, as with any external service provider, we are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services for other reasons. Servicers may not advance funds to us that would ordinarily be due because of errors, miscalculations or other reasons. Many borrowers require notices and reminders to keep their loans current and to prevent delinquencies and foreclosures, which our servicers may fail to provide. A substantial increase in our delinquency rate that results from improper servicing or loan performance in general may result in credit losses and could harm our ability to securitize our real estate loans in the future. Investments in diverse types of assets and businesses could expose us to new, different, or increased risks. We have invested in and intend to continue invest in a variety of real estate and non-real estate related assets that may not be closely related to our current core business. Additionally, we may enter various securitization, service, and other operating businesses that may not be closely related to our current business. Any of these actions may expose us to new, different, or increased investment, operational, financial, or management risks. We have made investments in CDO debt and equity securities issued by CDO securitizations other than Acacia that own various types of assets, generally real estate related. These CDOs (as well as the Acacia entities) have invested in manufactured housing securities, subprime residential securities, and other residential securities backed by lower-quality borrowers. They also own a variety of commercial real estate loans and securities, corporate debt issued by REITs that own commercial real estate properties, and other assets that have diverse credit risks. We may invest in CDO equity securities issued by CDOs that own trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions or other types of non-real estate assets. We may invest directly or indirectly in real property. We may invest in non-real estate ABS or corporate debt or equity. We have invested in diverse types of IO securities from residential and commercial securitizations sponsored by us or by others. The higher credit and prepayment risks associated with these types of investments may increase our exposure to losses. We may invest in non-U.S. assets that may expose us to currency risks (which we may choose not to hedge) and different types of credit, prepayment, hedging, interest rate, liquidity, legal, and other risks. New assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive as yields on our current assets, resulting in a decline in our earnings per share over time. We believe the assets we acquire have the potential to generate attractive economic returns and GAAP yields, but acquiring assets in an uncertain economic environment poses risks. Potential cash flow and mark-to-market returns from new asset acquisitions could be negative, including both new assets that are backed by newly-originated loans, as well as new assets that are backed by more seasoned assets that may experience higher than expected levels of delinquency and default. In order to maintain our portfolio size and our earnings, we reinvest in new earning assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal, interest, calls, and sales. We receive monthly payments from most of our assets, consisting of principal and interest. In addition, occasionally some of our residential loan CES are called (effectively sold). Principal payments and calls reduce the size of our current portfolio and generate cash for us. We also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio management and capital recycling strategies. If the assets we acquire in the future earn lower GAAP yields than the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share will likely decline over time as the older assets pay down, are called, or are sold. Under the effective yield method of accounting that we use for GAAP accounting purposes for some of our assets, we recognize yields on assets based on our assumptions regarding future cash flows. A portion of the 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS cash flows we receive that exceeds the anticipated cash flows reduces our basis in these assets. As a result of these various factors, our basis for GAAP amortization purposes for many of our current assets is lower than their current fair values. Assets with a lower GAAP basis generate higher GAAP yields, yields that are not necessarily available on newly acquired assets. Business conditions, including credit results, prepayment patterns, and interest rate trends in the future are unlikely to be as favorable as they have been for the last few years. Our growth may be limited if assets are not available or not available at attractive prices. To reinvest proceeds from principal repayments and deploy new capital that we may raise in the future, we must acquire new assets. If the availability of new assets is limited, we may not be able to acquire assets that will generate attractive returns. Generally, asset supply can be reduced if originations of a particular product are reduced, if there are few sales in the secondary market of seasoned product from existing portfolios, or if assets we believe have a favorable risk/reward ratio are not be available for purchase or if there is little or no demand for AAA-rated securities. We do not originate loans and rely on the origination market to supply the types of loans we wish to credit-enhance. At times, due to heightened credit concerns, strengthened underwriting standards, or concerns about economic growth or housing values, the volume of originations may decrease significantly. In late 2007, the volume of subprime and alt-a loan originations was significantly lower than in recent years, and the volume may not return to previous levels in the foreseeable future. The future volume of prime loan originations may also be at a relatively low level. This reduced volume may make it difficult for us to compete and acquire loans. The supply of new securitized assets available for purchase could be reduced if the economics or form of the securitization become unattractive. A key factor in the economics of securitization is a highly liquid market for AAA-rated securities. The events in late 2007 revealed that the liquidity of this market may be disrupted at times. Fears about credit quality and the changes in credit rating agencies analyses have dampened the demand for IGS backed by real estate loans and securities, and investor demand for these securities may not reach previous levels in the foreseeable future. Without a robust market for AAA-rated securities, the supply of real estate CES could be significantly diminished. In addition, the risks associated with the acquisition of loans for the purpose of securitization may increase significantly and we may choose not to acquire any loans during these periods. Our growth may be limited if we are not able to raise additional capital. As a REIT we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. Thus, we do not generally have the ability to retain earnings and we rely on our ability to raise capital to grow. We may raise capital through the issuance of new shares of our common stock, either through our direct stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plan or through secondary offerings. We may also raise capital by issuing other types of securities, such as preferred stock or convertible subordinated notes, or by taking on long-term debt. We may not be able to raise capital at times when we see opportunities to employ capital. Many of the same factors that would make investments in real estate loans and securities attractive, such as the availability of assets from distressed owners who need to liquidate and thus may accept reduced prices, and uncertainty about credit risk, housing, and the economy, may make it difficult for us to convince new investors to provide us with additional capital. There may be other reasons we are not able to raise capital and, as a result, may not be able to finance a growth in our portfolios. Our plan is to grow and we build our infrastructure accordingly. If we are unable to raise capital and expand our portfolios, our operating expenses may increase significantly relative to our capital base. Many of our investments have limited liquidity. The residential, commercial, and CDO CES we acquire are generally less liquid that the residential, commercial, and CDO IGS we acquire. In turbulent markets, it is likely that the liquidity of the lower-rated securities, and some of the higher-rated securities that we hold, may become even less liquid. As a result, we may not be able to sell certain assets at desirable times or at attractive prices and incur significant losses upon sale of the assets. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS As a result of the limited liquidity of the types of securities we acquire and our securitization entities issue, there may be little trading information available to verify the values at which we report these assets and liabilities on our financial statements. This makes the estimates of fair value reflected in our financial statements more speculative, and our reported earnings and book values may not reflect the values we ultimately realize from our portfolio. Our cash balances and cash flows may be insufficient relative to our cash needs. We need cash to meet our interest expense payments, working capital, minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements, and other needs. We may also need cash to repay our recourse short-term borrowings in the event the fair values of our assets that serve as collateral for that debt decline, the terms of short-term debt become less attractive, or for other reasons. Our sources of cash flow may not be sufficient to satisfy these needs. Cash flows from principal repayments could be reduced if prepayments slow or if credit quality deteriorates. Cashflows on our investments in CDO’s (including investments in Acacia) may also be disrupted due to credit rating agencies downgrading securities owned by the securitization entity if certain average rating tests are not satisfied. For some of our assets, cash flows are “locked-out” and we receive less than our pro-rata share of principal payment cash flows in the early years of the investment. For some loans, borrowers have the option to make payments that are less than the fully amortized amount. Operating cash flows could be reduced if earnings are reduced, if discount amortization income significantly exceeds premium amortization expense, or for other reasons. Our minimum dividend distribution requirements could become large relative to our cash flows if our income as calculated for tax purposes significantly exceeds our net cash flows. This could occur due to taxable income (including amortization income and interest income on negative amortizing loans) exceeding cash flows received. In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our access to liquidity, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus reducing our earnings. In an adverse cash flow situation, we may not be able to sell assets effectively, and our REIT status or our solvency could be threatened. We sometimes utilize financial leverage and this could expose us to increased risks. We have invested in IGS and residential whole loans that we have financed with various types of short-term debt. By incurring this leverage we can generate attractive returns on our equity invested in these assets. However, as a result of the leverage, we could incur significant losses if our borrowing costs increase relative to the earnings on our assets and hedges. These financing facilities may also force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions to meet the lenders margin calls in the event of a decrease in the fair values of the assets pledged as collateral. To the extent we do not have sufficient cash or other assets to post the margin calls, we could be forced to sell the assets. Liquidation of the collateral could create negative tax consequences and raise REIT qualification issues. Although we typically seek a variety of financing facilities and counterparties, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew those facilities when they mature. The failure to renew facilities could force us to sell assets in adverse market conditions. Liquidity in debt markets, including repo and commercial paper, can be withdrawn suddenly, making it difficult or expensive to renew short-term borrowings as they mature. Changes in prepayment rates of residential real estate loans could reduce our earnings, dividends, cash flows, and access to liquidity. The economic returns we expect to earn from most of the residential real estate securities we or Acacia own and loans we or Sequoia own are affected by the rate of prepayment of the underlying residential real estate loans. Prepayments are unpredictable and adverse changes in the rate of prepayment could reduce our cash flows, earnings, and dividends. Adverse changes in cash flows would likely reduce an asset’s fair value, which could reduce our ability borrowed against that asset and may cause a market valuation adjustment for GAAP purposes, which could reduce our reported earnings. While we estimate prepayment rates to determine the effective yield of our assets and valuations, these estimates are not precise, and prepayment rates do not necessarily change in a predictable manner as a function of interest rate changes. Prepayment rates can change rapidly. As a result, changes can cause volatility in our financial results, affect our ability to securitize assets, affect our ability to fund acquisitions, and have other negative impacts on our ability to grow and generate earnings. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We own a number of securities, the returns from which are strongly affected by prepayments rates. These securities include interest-only securities (IOs) that we acquire from third parties and from our Sequoia entities. Faster prepayments than we anticipated on the underlying loans backing these IOs will have an adverse effect on our returns on these investments. We are subject to significant competition and we may not compete successfully. We are subject to significant competition in seeking investments. Our competitors include other mortgage REITS, the Federal National Mortgage Association, referred to as Fannie Mae, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, referred to as Freddie Mac, financial institutions, securities dealers, insurance companies, investment funds and other investors. In addition, other companies may be formed that will compete with us for investments or otherwise pursue investment strategies similar to ours. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Furthermore, competition for investments may lead to a decrease in the returns available from the investments which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. Recent legislation may lead to increased competition. Until recently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been statutorily prohibited from purchasing loans in excess of $417,000. On February 7, 2008, Congress passed an economic stimulus package that includes provisions that increase the size of the loans these entities may purchase to up to $729,750 for loans originated between July 31, 2007, and December 31, 2008. Congress may decide to extend this window past December 31, 2008 or may otherwise increase the size of loans that these entities may acquire. Any such change would allow Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to continue to compete against us in a market in which they had not been allowed to compete previously. The status of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as government-sponsored enterprises, combined with their size and other factors, make them significant competitors. If the size of the loans that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may acquire were to increase permanently, our business could be adversely affected. Our securitization activities could expose us to litigation, which may adversely affect our business. We sponsor securitization entities which issue asset-backed securities. Through our Sequoia securitization entities, we issue ABS that are backed by mortgage loans held by the Sequoia entities. Through our Acacia securitization entities, we issue ABS that are backed by securities held by the Acacia entities. As a result of declining property values, increasing defaults and other factors, the cash flows from the loans held by the Sequoia entities and the securities held by the Acacia entities may be insufficient to repay in full the ABS issued. We are not directly liable for any of the ABS issued by these entities. Nonetheless, third parties who hold the ABS issued by these entities may try to hold us liable for any losses they experience. Defending a lawsuit can consume significant resources and may divert management’s attention from our ordinary operations. Hedging activities may reduce long-term earnings, may fail to reduce earnings volatility, and may fail to protect our capital in difficult economic environments. We attempt to hedge certain interest rate risks (and, to a lesser extent, prepayment risks) by balancing the characteristics of our assets with respect to those risks and entering into various interest rate agreements. The number and scope of the interest rate agreements we utilize may vary significantly over time. We generally attempt to enter into interest rate hedges that provide an appropriate and efficient method for hedging the desired risk. Hedging against interest rate risks using interest rate agreements and other instruments usually has the effect over time of lowering long-term earnings. To the extent that we hedge, it is usually to protect us from some of the effects of short-term interest rate volatility, to lower short-term earnings volatility, to stabilize liability costs or fair values, to stabilize our economic returns from or meet rating agency requirements with respect to a securitization, or to stabilize the future cost of anticipated ABS issuance by a securitization entity. Hedging may not achieve its desired goals. Pipeline hedging for loan purchase commitments may not be effective due to loan fallout or other reasons. Using interest rate agreements as a hedge may increase short-term earnings volatility, especially if we do not elect to hedge the accounting treatment for our hedges (i.e., our hedges are accounted for as trading instruments). Reductions in fair values of interest rate 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS agreements may not be offset by increases in fair values of the assets or liabilities being hedged. Conversely, increases in fair values of interest rate agreements may not fully offset declines in fair values of assets or liabilities being hedged. Changes in fair values of interest rate agreements may require us to pledge significant amounts of collateral or cash. We also may hedge by taking short, forward, or long positions in U.S. Treasuries, mortgage securities, or other cash instruments. We intend to take both long and short positions in credit derivative transactions linked to real estate assets. These derivatives may have additional risks to us, such as special liquidity, basis risks, and counterparty risks Our quarterly earnings may be subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of the accounting treatment for certain interest rate agreements or for assets or liabilities that do not necessarily match those used for interest rate agreements, or as a result of our failure to meet the requirements to obtain desired hedge accounting treatment for certain interest rate agreements. We may invest in synthetic securities, including credit default swaps, which expose us to additional risks. We invest in synthetic securities including credit default swaps that reference other real estate securities. These investments may present risks in excess of those resulting from the referenced securities. An investment in a synthetic security is a contractual relationship with a counterparty and not an acquisition of the referenced security. In a synthetic investment, we have no right directly to enforce compliance with the terms of the referenced security, and we have no voting or other consensual rights of ownership with respect to the referenced security. In the event of insolvency of a counterparty, we will be treated as a general creditor of the counterparty and will have no claim of title with respect to the referenced security. The market for many synthetic securities, including credit default swaps referencing real estate securities, has only existed for a few years and is not liquid. Many of these credit default swaps incorporate “pay as you go” credit events which have been introduced into the market fairly recently. The terms of credit default swaps are still evolving and may change significantly which could make it more difficult to assign such an instrument or determine the “loss” pursuant the underlying agreement. For example, in a credit default swap, the party wishing to “buy” protection will pay a premium. When interest rates change, the spreads change, or the prevailing credit premiums on credit default swaps change, the amount of the termination payment due could change by a substantial amount. In an illiquid market, the determination of this change could be difficult to ascertain and, as a result, we may not achieve the desired benefit of entering into this contractual relationship. To date, we have entered into a limited number of synthetic securities agreements. We may over time increase our exposure to these investments as the market for them grows and during times when acquiring other real estate loans and securities may be difficult. We may find credit default swaps and other forms of synthetic securities to be a more efficient method of providing credit-enhancement on specific pools of real estate loans. We will attempt to manage the risks associated with these investments including counterparty risks, but our efforts may prove to be insufficient in enabling us to generate the returns anticipated. We enter into derivative contracts that expose us to contingent liabilities and those contingent liabilities may not appear on our balance sheet. We enter into derivative contracts that could require us to make cash payments in certain circumstances. These potential payments would be contingent liabilities and may not appear on our balance sheet. Our ability to satisfy these contingent liabilities depends on the liquidity of our assets and our access to capital and cash. The need to fund these contingent liabilities could adversely impact our financial condition. Our results could be adversely affected by counterparty credit risk. We have credit risks that are generally related to the counterparties with which we do business. There is a risk that the counterparty will fail to perform under its contractual arrangement with us. Counterparties may seek to eliminate credit exposure by entering into back-to-back hedging transactions, and the ability of a counterparty to settle a synthetic transaction may be dependent on whether the counterparties to the back-to-back transactions perform their delivery obligations. Those risks of non performance may differ 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS materially from the risks entailed in exchange-traded transactions, which generally are backed by clearing organization guarantees, daily mark-to-market and settlement of positions, and segregations and minimum capital requirements applicable to intermediaries. Transactions entered into directly between parties generally do not benefit from those protections, and expose the parties to the risk of counterparty default. Furthermore, there may be practical and timing problems associated with enforcing our rights to assets in the case of an insolvency of a counterparty. In the event a counterparty to our short-term borrowings becomes insolvent, we may fail to recover the full value of our pledged collateral, thus reducing our earnings and liquidity. In the event a counterparty to our interest rate agreements, credit default swaps, or other derivatives becomes insolvent or interprets our agreements with it in a manner unfavorable to us, our ability to realize benefits from the hedge transaction may be diminished, any cash or collateral we pledged to the counterparty may be unrecoverable and we may be forced to unwind these agreements at a loss. In the event that one of our servicers becomes insolvent or fails to perform, loan delinquencies and credit losses may increase and we may not receive the funds to which we are entitled. We attempt to diversify our counterparty exposure and (except with respect to loan representations and warranties) limit our counterparty exposure to strong companies with investment-grade credit ratings; however, we are not always able to do so. Our counterparty risk management strategy may prove ineffective and, accordingly, our earnings could be adversely affected. The expansion of our asset management business may expose us to new risks. We currently manage and receive a fee for managing the assets in Acacia. We anticipate expanding asset management initiatives in 2008 with the expected launch of Redwood Opportunity Fund, LP, and we may expand into more areas in the future. New asset management activities may increase our exposure to litigation, fiduciary responsibilities, conflicts of interest arising from Redwood’s investment activities and the activities of the entities we manage, and other risks. We believe we can manage these risks effectively, but there can be no assurance that we will do so. As we expand our asset management business, we will incur additional costs to establish new funds, limited partnerships, and other investment vehicles. Our efforts to raise capital for these ventures may not succeed, or the capital we raise may not be sufficient to offset the initial and ongoing costs of these ventures. We may begin taking some foreign exchange risks. We are exploring the asset management business outside of the United States. To the extent we enter into commitments that will be paid with foreign currency, we will be exposed to foreign exchange risks. We may decide not to hedge or to otherwise manage this risk and the risk may become more significant over time. Our securitization operations expose us to liquidity, fair value, and execution risks. In order to continue our residential loan and CDO securitization operations, we will require access to short-term debt to finance inventory accumulation prior to sale to the securitization entities. This debt may be unavailable or the terms of the available debt may be unfavorable to us. We expect to pledge the inventory assets we acquire to secure the short-term debt we incur. This debt will be recourse to us and if the fair value of the collateral declines, we will be required to increase the amount of collateral pledged to secure the debt or to reduce the debt amount. Our goal is to sell the assets acquired with the proceeds from the debt to a securitization entity; however, if our ability to complete the securitization is disrupted and we are unable to extend the term of the debt incurred to finance the acquisition of the assets, we may need to sell the assets (most likely at a loss). When we acquire assets for a securitization, we make assumptions about the cash flows that will be generated from the securitization of these assets. Widening ABS spreads, rising ABS yields, incorrect estimation of rating agency securitization requirements, poor hedging results, and other factors could result in a securitization execution that provides lower cash flows than initially assumed. This could result in a loss to us for tax purposes and reduced earnings for GAAP purposes. Short-term borrowing arrangements used to support our securitization operations subject us to debt covenants. While these covenants have not meaningfully restricted our operations to date, as a practical 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS matter, they could be restrictive or harmful to us in the future. In the event we violate debt covenants, we may incur expenses or losses, or our ability to incur additional debt may be restricted. Our payment of commitment fees and other expenses to secure borrowing lines may not protect us from liquidity issues or losses. Variations in lenders’ abilities to access funds, lender confidence in us, lender collateral requirements, available borrowing rates, the acceptability and fair values of our collateral, and other factors could force us to utilize our liquidity reserves or to sell assets to fund the purchase of assets for sale to securitization entities, thus affecting our liquidity, financial soundness, and earnings. Disruptions in the mortgage securitization market may adversely affect our earnings and growth. We depend upon the issuance of mortgage backed securities by the securitization entities we sponsor as a funding source for our business. The credit rating agencies determine the amount of net investment we must make in the securitization entities to credit-enhance the securities issued by those entities. Increases in the amount of the net investment the credit agencies requires us to make could adversely affect our ability to sponsor new securitization entities. In addition, if the market for securitizations should become disrupted, the securitization entities we sponsor may be unable to issue ABS. In this event, our ability to continue to acquire loans and securities would be impaired and our earnings and ability to grow may be adversely affected. We have exposure under representations and warranties we make in the contracts of sale of loans to securitization entities. In connection with our securitization activities, we sell the loans to the securitization entities we sponsor pursuant to agreements in which we make representations and warranties to those securitization entities with respect to the assets we transfer to them. If it turns out that because of irregularities in the underlying loans, our representations and warranties are inaccurate, we may be obligated to repurchase the loans from the securitization entities at principal value, which may exceed market value. We generally obtain representations and warranties that parallel those we provide to the securitization entities from the parties from whom we acquired the loans. As a result, we believe that we should, in most circumstances, be able to compel the original sellers of the loans to repurchase from us the loans we are obligated to repurchase from the securitization entities. However, if the representations and warranties are not parallel, or if the original seller is not in a financial position to be able to repurchase the loans, we may incur a loss upon repurchase of the loans from the securitization entity. If we fail to develop, enhance, and implement strategies to adapt to changing conditions in the mortgage industry and capital markets, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected. The manner in which we compete and the products for which we compete are affected by changing conditions which can take the form of trends or sudden changes in our industry, regulatory environment, changes in the role of government sponsored entities, credit rating agencies’ changes in their role or rating criteria or process, or the U.S. economy more generally. If we do not effectively respond to these changes, or if our strategies to respond to these changes are not successful, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that drive our dividend distributions and reliance on GAAP results may not accurately reflect future taxable income and dividend distributions. We manage our business based on long-term opportunities to generate cash flows. Our dividend distributions are driven by our minimum dividend distribution requirements under the REIT tax laws and our taxable income as calculated for tax purposes pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. Our reported results for GAAP purposes may differ materially, however, from both the cash flows and our taxable income. In determining our REIT taxable income (which drives our minimum dividend distribution requirements as a REIT), no current tax deduction is available for future credit losses that are anticipated to occur. Credit losses can only be deducted for tax purposes when they are actually realized. As a result, for tax purposes, there is no credit reserve or reduction of yield accruals based on anticipated losses, and an increase in our credit losses in the future will reduce our taxable income (and dividend distribution requirements). By 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS contrast, for GAAP purposes, we are required to reflect in our results of operations assumptions about the amount and timing of credit losses in advance of when the losses are actually realized. As a result, the occurrence of these assumed losses will not directly impact our future GAAP income (although they could lead to additional provisions or credit reserve designations to provide for potential additional losses in the event we revise our assumptions). For tax purposes, we do not mark-to-market any asset or liability. Any potential gain, loss, or impairment on an asset or liability is generally recognized for taxable income purposes only at the time of sale, call, or maturity of the asset or liability. For GAAP accounting purposes, certain assets and liabilities are marked-to-market with the changes in the fair values being reflected in the income statement in some cases. Thus, the amount and timing of any changes in the fair value of an asset or liability will likely be reported on substantially different bases when calculating GAAP and taxable income. Accounting for compensation expense also varies for GAAP and tax calculations, especially in how equity awards (such as options and deferred stock units) are determined. For the most part, under GAAP, the total expense associated with an award is determined at the award date and is recognized over the vesting period. For tax purposes, the expense is recognized at the date of distribution or exercise. This leads to the potential that the total expense related to equity awards, as well as the timing for the recognition of the expense, could be significantly different for GAAP and tax purposes. There are other differences in calculating taxable and GAAP income and there could be further differences as accounting principles and tax regulations change. As a result of these differences in GAAP and tax accounting, our cumulative taxable income and our cumulative dividend distributions have been far greater than our cumulative reported GAAP income. To the extent that the credit loss assumptions we use for GAAP purposes on our existing portfolio do occur, then we would expect our future taxable income to decrease as the credit losses occur. To the extent the other-than-temporary impairments we have recognized for GAAP purposes reflect a decrease in future cash flows, then our taxable income will decrease. Our GAAP income to date includes the expense of vested equity awards that have not yet been distributed or exercised. The taxable expense we will incur on these equity awards will be dependent on the value of our common stock at future dates and this amount could be significant in any one period depending on the timing of distributions and exercises. Taxable income consists of ordinary income and capital gains and losses. In order to recognize capital losses, we can only offset them against capital gains. There can be no assurance that we could generate capital gains to offset any capital losses we incur. Thus, in such instances, our dividend distributions would not be reduced even by the amounts of any unused capital losses. Our reported income depends on estimates and assumptions about the future and actual results may vary from our estimates, resulting in fluctuations in our balance sheet and earnings. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make a significant number of estimates. These estimates include the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, the amount and timing of credit losses, prepayment rates, and other items that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of certain revenues and expenses recognized during the reported period. Our estimates are inherently subjective in nature and fluctuations in our reported earnings will result when actual results differ from our estimates. To prepare our financial statements we depend on accounting principles, conventions, and interpretations to prepare our financial statements. Over time, accounting principles, conventions, and interpretations may change, which could affect our reported income, earnings, and stockholders equity. Accounting rules for the various aspects of our business change from time to time. Changes in GAAP, or the accepted interpretation of these accounting principles, can affect our reported income, earnings, and stockholders’ equity. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may change our policies, procedures, practices, product lines, leverage, risks, hedging strategies, or internal risk-adjusted capital guidelines in ways that may increase our risk exposure. We may alter our policies, procedures, practices, product lines, leverage, risks, internal risk-adjusted capital guidelines, and other aspects of our business. We may enter into new businesses, relationships, or partnerships or pursue acquisitions of other companies or a variety of different types of assets. These changes may increase the magnitude of the risks to which we are exposed. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive management team. Experienced personnel are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain key personnel. Our technology infrastructure and systems are important and any significant disruption could have an adverse effect on our business. In order to analyze, acquire, and manage our securities and manage the risks associated with our business, assets, and liabilities, we rely upon computer hardware and software systems. Some of these systems are located at our office and some are maintained by third party vendors. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of these systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We have taken steps to provide for the security of our systems and data. However, these security measures may not effectively prevent others from obtaining improper access to our systems data. Improper access could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, and liabilities to third parties, and otherwise disrupt our operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements, or misrepresentations. While management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, particularly material weaknesses, in internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operation, financial condition, or liquidity. Risks Related to our Company Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our dividend distributions and could adversely affect the value of our securities. We believe that we have met all requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for all tax years since 1994 and we intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT in the future. However, many of the requirements for qualification as a REIT are highly technical and complex and require an analysis of particular facts and an application of the legal requirements to those facts in situations where there is only limited judicial and administrative guidance. Thus, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service or a court would agree with our conclusion that we have qualified as a REIT or that future changes in our factual situation or the law will allow us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we failed to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and did not meet the requirements for statutory relief, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income and we could possibly be disqualified as a REIT for four years thereafter. Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our dividend distributions and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Maintaining REIT status may reduce our flexibility. To maintain REIT status, we must follow certain rules and meet certain tests. In doing so, our flexibility to manage our operations may be reduced. For instance: 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS • If we make frequent asset sales from our REIT entities to persons deemed customers, we could be viewed as a “dealer,” and thus subject to 100% prohibited transaction taxes or other entity-level taxes on income from such transactions. • Compliance with the REIT income and asset rules may limit the type or extent of hedging that we can undertake. • Our ability to own non-real estate related assets and earn non-real estate related income is limited. Our ability to own equity interests in other entities is limited. If we fail to comply with these limits, we may be forced to liquidate attractive assets on short notice on unfavorable terms in order to maintain our REIT status. • Our ability to invest in taxable subsidiaries is limited under the REIT rules. Maintaining compliance with this limit could require us to constrain the growth of our taxable REIT affiliates in the future. • Meeting minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could reduce our liquidity. Earning non-cash REIT taxable income could necessitate our selling assets, incurring debt, or raising new equity in order to fund dividend distributions. • Stock ownership tests may limit our ability to raise significant amounts of equity capital from one source. In addition, historically, our stated goal has been to not generate excess inclusion income that would be taxable as unrelated business taxable income (UBTI) to our tax-exempt stockholders. Achieving this goal has limited our flexibility in pursuing certain transactions and may continue to do so in the future. Despite our efforts to do so, we may not be able to avoid creating or distributing UBTI to our stockholders. Changes in tax rules could adversely affect REITs. The requirements for maintaining REIT status or the taxation of REITs could change in a manner adverse to our operations. Rules regarding the taxation of dividends are enacted from time to time and future legislative or regulatory changes may limit the tax benefits accorded to REITs, either of which may reduce some of a REIT’s competitive edge relative to non-REIT corporations. We may create new entities that are initially entirely owned by Redwood for specific purposes and those entities may be taxable REIT subsidiaries and increase our costs of operations. In order to expand our business, seek new opportunities, or for other business reasons, we may create new subsidiaries. Generally, these would be wholly-owned by Redwood. The creation of those subsidiaries may increase our administrative costs and expose us to other legal and reporting obligations. Some of these entities may be incorporated in states other than Maryland and some may be set up to expand into international businesses. Some of these entities will be taxable REIT subsidiaries. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are wholly-owned subsidiaries of a REIT that pay corporate income tax on the income generated. That is, a taxable REIT subsidiary is not able to deduct its dividends paid to its parent in determining its taxable income, and any dividends paid to the parent are generally recognized as income at the parent level. Thus, we expect that income generated by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to corporate income taxes and we will retain the income at that entity. Failure to continue to qualify for the Investment Company Act exclusion could harm us. Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, an investment company is required to register with the SEC and is subject to extensive restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends, and transactions with affiliates. However, companies primarily engaged in the business of acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate (i.e., qualifying interests) are excluded from the requirements of the Investment Company Act. To qualify for the Investment Company Act exclusion, we, among other things, must maintain at least 55% of our assets in certain qualifying real estate assets (the 55% Requirement) and are also required to maintain an additional 25% in qualifying assets or other real estate-related assets (the 25% Requirement). 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we failed to meet the 55% Requirement and the 25% Requirement, we could, among other things, be required either (i) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (ii) to register as an investment company, either of which could harm us. Further, if we were deemed an unregistered investment company, we could be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief. We may be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period we were deemed an unregistered investment company, unless the court found that under the circumstances, enforcement (or denial of rescission) would produce a more equitable result than no enforcement (or grant of rescission) and would not be inconsistent with the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and provisions of Maryland law may limit a change in control or deter a takeover that might otherwise result in a premium price being paid to our stockholders. In order to maintain our qualifications as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities). In order to protect us against risk of losing our status as a REIT due to concentration of ownership among our stockholders, our charter generally prohibits any single stockholder, or any group of affiliated stockholders, from beneficially owning more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of any class of our stock, unless our board of directors waives or modifies this ownership limit. This limitation may have the effect of precluding an acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. As of December 31, 2007, our board of directors has granted waivers to two parties to own shares in excess of 9.8%, each subject to terms and conditions including the execution of a voting agreement. These voting agreements apply to the shares owned in excess of 9.8% by each party and states that they shall be voted on matters in the same proportion as all other shares are voted (exclusive of the 9.8% block voted by the interested party.) Certain other provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and in the Maryland General Corporation Law (MCGL) may have the effect of discouraging a third-party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may therefore inhibit a change in control. Our charter includes provisions granting our board of directors the authority to issue preferred stock from time to time and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of the preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. In addition, provisions in our charter and the MCGL restrict our stockholders’ ability to remove directors and fill vacancies on our board of directors and restrict unsolicited share acquisitions. Our charter provides that our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms of office of three years each, and thus at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in a majority of our directors. These provisions may deter offers to acquire our stock or large blocks of our stock upon terms attractive to our stockholders, thereby limiting the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares over then-prevailing market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 