ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Kforce may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Kforce depends upon the abilities of its staff to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and professional personnel, who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. We expect competition for individuals with proven technical or professional skills for the foreseeable future. If qualified personnel are not available to us in sufficient numbers and upon economic terms acceptable to us, it could have a material detrimental effect on our business. Kforce’s current market share may decrease as a result of limited barriers to entry for new competitors and discontinuation of clients outsourcing of their staffing needs. Kforce faces significant competition in the markets we serve, and there are limited barriers to entry for new competitors. The competition among staffing services firms is intense. Kforce competes for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, temporary personnel agencies, search firms and other providers of staffing services. A number of our competitors possess substantially greater resources than we do. From time to time, we experience significant pressure from our clients to reduce price levels. During these periods, we may face increased competitive pricing pressures and may not be able to recruit the personnel necessary to fill our clients’ needs. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. We rely on short-term contracts with most of our clients. Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of our business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Further, our reliance on short-term contracts exerts continued pressure on us when we try to renew contracts with existing clients who may seek better terms at each renewal. Our “offshore” outsourcing solutions are limited. Many staffing customers are now seeking an “offshore” solution to support their technology and business process function and, as a result, a significant amount of technology and financial staffing may be replaced by “offshore” resources. Prior to January 31, 2006, we did not provide an “offshore” program. Following the acquisition of PCCI on January 31, 2006, we now provide a limited technology staffing solution through a location in the Philippines to certain clients whose contracts were acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of PCCI. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against other “offshore” solution providers or that we will not lose significant market share and revenue. We do not provide a Vendor Management System (“VMS”) solution. Many staffing customers are seeking to consolidate their use of staffing services through the use of VMS solutions. Kforce provides consultants to these clients through other staffing companies who utilize a VMS solution, but we do not currently provide this service directly to our clients. There can be no assurance that we can continue to effectively compete with those companies that provide a VMS solution. Currently, Kforce is unable to recruit enough nurses to meet our clients’ demands for nurse staffing services, limiting the potential growth of our healthcare staffing business. Kforce relies on its ability to attract, develop, and retain nurses and other healthcare personnel who possess the skills, experience and licensure necessary to meet the specified requirements of our healthcare staffing clients. We compete for healthcare staffing personnel with other temporary healthcare staffing companies, as well as actual and potential clients. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States and competition for nursing personnel is increasing. At this time, we do not have enough nurses to meet our clients’ demands for our nurse staffing services. This shortage of nurses limits Kforce’s ability to grow our healthcare staffing business. Furthermore, we believe that the aging of the existing nurse population and declining enrollments in nursing schools will result in further competition for qualified nursing personnel. Decreases in patient occupancy at healthcare clients’ facilities may adversely affect the profitability of Kforce’s business. Demand for temporary healthcare staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at healthcare clients’ facilities. When a hospital’s occupancy increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, clients may reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. Kforce may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. This reduction in occupancy could adversely affect the demand for services and Kforce’s profitability. Although demand has improved for our healthcare staffing services during 2004, 2005, and 2006, there can be no assurance that such demand will remain at current levels. 9 Table of Contents Significant legal actions, particularly relating to our healthcare staffing services, could subject Kforce to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts or crimes committed by our employees or temporary staffing personnel. In some instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant client policies and guidelines or applicable Federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance, fidelity insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. The addition of offices and entry into new geographic markets may not occur on a timely basis or achieve anticipated financial results. Kforce’s growth depends in part on our ability to enter new vertical or geographic markets successfully. This expansion is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: • develop, recruit and maintain a base of qualified professionals within a new geographic market; • initiate, develop and sustain corporate client relationships in each new vertical or geographic market; • attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified sales and sales support employees; and • accurately assess the demand in a new market. The addition of new offices and entry into new vertical or geographic markets typically result in increases in operating expenses, primarily due to increased employee headcount. Expenses are incurred in advance of forecasted revenue, and there is typically a delay before our new employees reach full productivity. Additionally, demand for our services in new markets that we enter might also be less than we anticipate. If we are unable to enter new vertical or geographic markets in a cost-effective manner or if demand for our services in new markets does not meet or exceed our forecasts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we closed and consolidated offices to improve efficiency, and further closures or consolidation may occur depending on market and competitive conditions. Competition for acquisition opportunities may restrict Kforce’s future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. Kforce’s business strategy includes increasing market share and presence in the staffing industry through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. In the future, this could limit our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. In addition, Kforce may be limited by its ability to obtain financing to consummate desirable acquisitions. Kforce may face difficulties integrating acquisitions into existing operations and acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures or expose Kforce to unforeseen liabilities. Kforce continually evaluates opportunities to acquire staffing companies that complement or enhance our business and frequently has preliminary acquisition discussions with some of these companies. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into a single business; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, integration expenses and exposure to unforeseen liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Kforce faces significant employment liability risk. Kforce employs and places people in the workplaces of other businesses. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions, misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, discrimination and harassment, employment of illegal aliens, theft of client property, other criminal activity, torts or other claims. We have policies and guidelines in place to reduce our exposure to such risks. However, failure of any employee or personnel to follow these policies and guidelines may result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, payment by Kforce of monetary damages or fines or other material adverse effects upon our business. Moreover, we could be held responsible for the actions at a workplace of persons not under our immediate control. To reduce our exposure, we maintain insurance covering general liability, workers compensation claims, errors and omissions, and employee theft. Due to the nature of our assignments, in particular, access to client information systems and confidential information, and the potential liability with respect thereto, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts adequate to cover any such liability on acceptable terms. In addition, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. Kforce may be adversely affected by government regulation of the staffing business. Our business is subject to regulation and licensing in many states. While we have had no material difficulty complying with regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. If we fail to comply, such failure could materially adversely affect Kforce’s financial results. There are proposed changes in government visa rules that may materially impact our ability to bring foreign-born nurses to the United States. Our ability to bring nurses into the United States in the future may be severely impacted, which would affect our nurse staffing revenue. Kforce relies partially on foreign-born nurses in order to provide nurse staffing services to our healthcare customers. Kforce may be adversely affected by government regulation of the workplace. Part of our business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could have a material adverse affect on Kforce. If Kforce becomes subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. Kforce provides workers compensation coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. In addition, we provide medical coverage to our employees through a partially self-insured preferred provider organization. If we become subject to substantial uninsured workers compensation or medical coverage liabilities, our financial results may be adversely affected. Future changes in reimbursement trends could hamper our clients’ ability to pay Kforce. Many of Kforce’s healthcare clients are reimbursed under the Federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, Federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced government rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future Federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients’ reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients’ cash flow, hampering their ability to pay us. This situation could have a significant impact on our cash flow. Significant increases in payroll-related costs could adversely affect Kforce’s business. Kforce is required to pay a number of Federal, state, and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment taxes, workers compensation and insurance, FICA, and Medicare, among others, for our employees. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs likely would have a material adverse effect upon Kforce. Costs could also increase as a result of health care reforms or the possible imposition of additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. Recent Federal and state legislative proposals have included provisions extending health insurance benefits to personnel who currently do not receive such benefits. We may not be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs, if any such proposals are adopted. Kforce depends on the proper functioning of our information systems. Kforce is dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating its business. Critical information systems are used in every aspect of Kforce’s daily operations, most significantly, in the identification and matching of staffing resources to client assignments and in the customer billing and consultant payment functions. Kforce’s information systems 11 Table of Contents are protected through physical and software safeguards including the use of a third party data processing center. However, Kforce and its systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters (we are headquartered in a hurricane prone area), fire, terrorist acts, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, and to bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third-party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability we can not warrant. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors and fraud, or in making all material information known in a timely manner to management. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Kforce have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Kforce may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity to support operations. Kforce’s liquidity may be adversely impacted by covenants in our Credit Facility. On October 2, 2006, Kforce entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with a syndicate led by Bank of America, N.A. (“The Credit Facility”). Under the Credit Facility, Kforce increased its indebtedness under its existing $100 million revolving credit facility. Kforce’s maximum borrowings under the Credit Facility are now limited to $140 million, including a revolving loan tranche of up to $100 million (the “Revolving Loan Amount”), an additional revolving loan tranche (the “Additional Availability Amount”) of up to $25 million, and a $15 million sub-limit for letters of credit. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are limited to 85% of eligible accounts receivable, plus the lesser amount of $25 million or 20% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, minus certain minimum availability reserves. Under the Credit Facility, Kforce is required to meet certain minimum availability and fixed charge coverage ratio requirements and is prohibited from making any dividend distributions. The Additional Availability Amount is reduced by $1.25 million per month beginning November 2006, until the Additional Availability Amount is entirely eliminated, which will result in its elimination no later than June 2008. The Credit Facility expires on November 3, 2011. At no time during the existence of the Credit Facility have we ever failed to meet the minimum availability and fixed charge coverage ratio requirements. If we did not comply with these financial covenants, such a breach of the Credit Facility could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could result, among other things, in the acceleration of all amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. Kforce is subject to periodic Federal, state and local tax audits for various tax years. Although Kforce attempts to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse affect on Kforce. Kforce’s success depends upon retaining the services of its management team. Kforce is highly dependent on its management team and expects that continued success will depend largely upon their efforts and abilities. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon Kforce. Success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified operating employees; particularly management, client servicing, and candidate recruiting employees. Kforce expends significant resources in the recruiting and training of its employees, as the pool of available applicants for these positions is limited. The loss of some of our key operating employees could have an adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to establish and maintain client and candidate, professional and technical relationships. 12 Table of Contents Kforce’s stock price may be volatile. Kforce’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “KFRC.” The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, the employment services industry, or other developments affecting us, our clients, or our competitors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, especially the NASDAQ Global Select Market tier, along with market prices for staffing companies, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices that they pay. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. Provisions in Kforce’s articles and bylaws and under Florida law may have certain anti-takeover effects. Kforce’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. In particular, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board of directors and permit the removal of directors only for cause. Additionally, management may issue up to 15 million shares of preferred stock, and fix the rights and preferences thereof, without a further vote of the shareholders. In addition, certain of our officers and managers have employment agreements containing certain provisions that call for substantial payments to be made to such employees in certain circumstances upon a change in control. Certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of Kforce, including an acquisition in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. Moreover, the existence of these provisions may have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR GOVERNMENT BUSINESSES In 2006, Kforce acquired Pinkerton Computer Consultants, Inc., now named Kforce Government Solutions, Inc. (‘KGS”) and Bradson Corporation (“Bradson”). These firms, which operate as subsidiaries of Kforce, are substantially dedicated to contracting with and serving U.S. Federal government agencies (hereafter “Federal agency business”). Federal contractors, including KGS and Bradson, face a number of risks, including the following: Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of Federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our Federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal government agencies. The government may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenue and operating results. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees could include intentional failures to comply with Federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents Our Federal agency business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse impact. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the Federal agency business. There is often intense competition to win Federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue growth and margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases, and greater brand recognition. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. Loss of our General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule contracts would impair our ability to win new business. GSA schedule contracts constitute a significant percentage of revenue from our Federal agency clients. If we were to lose one or more of these contracts, we could lose revenue and our operating results could be adversely affected. These contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. Unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. The Federal agencies can audit and review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies Kforce has acquired or may acquire, or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could force us to refund previously recognized revenues. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the Federal government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially adversely affected. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in loss of our clients and cause negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for Federal government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could materially reduce our revenue. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the Federal government could cause us to lose revenue. Changes in Federal government fiscal or spending policies could adversely affect our government agency business. 14 Table of Contents The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the Federal agencies we support could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the Federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 