Risk Factors. The current economic conditions in the U.S. economy continue to affect our business. Since late 2007, global consumer confidence has eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, potential inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, high unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed economic growth, and have negatively impacted our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to reduced customer demand. If these economic conditions continue or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, struggling to obtain credit, or becoming insolvent. Any of these effects could impact our ability to collect receivables, increase our need for cash, and ultimately decrease our net revenue and profitability. Any failure by our HLS Clinical Research business to comply with certain regulations, policies and procedures specific to that business could harm our operating results and/or reputation. The services provided by our HLS Clinical Research business involve participation in clinical trials of pharmaceutical compounds using human subjects. This is a highly regulated field subject to oversight and inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Any failure on our part to comply with the regulations, policies, or procedures established for a trial, or to comply with good clinical research practices, could result in the termination of the trial or the disqualification of data for submission to the FDA. This could subject us to regulatory sanctions and penalties, create substantial contractual or other legal liability to our client(s), harm our reputation, harm our ability to win or participate in future business, and harm our operating results. We face certain risks in collecting our trade accounts receivable. We generate a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from our customers. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include business failures, turmoil in the financial and credit markets, sluggish or recessionary U.S. economic conditions, our exposure to customers in high-risk sectors such as the financial services industry, and declines in the credit worthiness of our customers. See Note 1 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Kforce may be adversely affected by immigration restrictions. Our Tech business utilizes a significant number of foreign nationals entering the U.S. on work visas, primarily under the H-1B visa classification. The H-1B visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign nationals in positions that require an education at least equal to a bachelor’s degree in the U.S. Immigration laws and regulations are subject to legislative and administrative changes, as well as changes in the application of standards and enforcement. Immigration laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Current and future restrictions on the availability of such visas could restrain our ability to acquire the skilled professionals we need to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2009, the United States Customs and Immigration Service (USCIS) significantly increased its scrutiny of companies seeking to sponsor, renew or modify H-1B visas, including Kforce and Kforce’s subcontractors. On January 8, 2010, the USCIS issued internal guidance to its field offices that appears to narrow the eligibility criteria for H-1B visas in the context of staffing services. The scope and impact of these changes on the staffing industry and Kforce remains unclear, however a narrow interpretation and vigorous enforcement could adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign national labor and/or renew existing foreign national consultants on assignment. The USCIS internal guidance is controversial and, if aggressively implemented, we believe it is likely to be challenged, including legal action, by adversely affected individuals and/or businesses. While we are closely monitoring the situation and considering potential mitigation strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep or replace all foreign nationals currently on assignment, or continue to acquire foreign national talent at the same rates as in the past. Kforce may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity to support operations. On October 2, 2006, Kforce entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with a syndicate led by Bank of America, N.A. (the “Credit Facility”). Kforce’s maximum borrowings under the Credit Facility are $140 million, which includes a revolving loan tranche of up to $125 million (the “Revolving Loan Amount”) and a $15 million sub-limit for letters of credit. Kforce’s liquidity may be adversely impacted by covenants in our Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are limited to 85% of eligible accounts receivable of which unbilled receivables can be no more than 40% of billed receivables, less certain minimum availability reserves. Under the Credit Facility, Kforce is required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio in the event that it is unable to maintain minimum availability under the Credit Facility of $15.0 million. As of December 31, 2009, Kforce had availability under the Credit Facility of $65.2 million; therefore, the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. Kforce believes that it will be able to maintain the minimum availability requirement; however, in the event that Kforce is unable to do so, Kforce may fail the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which would constitute an event of default. The Credit Facility expires in November 2011. 9 Table of Contents At no time during the existence of the Credit Facility have we failed to meet the minimum availability and fixed charge coverage ratio requirements. If we did not comply with these financial covenants, such a breach of the Credit Facility could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could result, among other things, in the acceleration of all amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” portion of the MD&A in this annual report. The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, and may also cause a decrease in demand for our services. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under our Credit Facility, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on any of the amounts available under our Credit Facility, or a substantial portion thereof. This could limit Kforce’s ability to make strategic acquisitions and/or selective repurchases of its common stock. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing in addition to, or as a replacement of, our Credit Facility, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing or at comparable terms. In addition, the credit market turmoil has negatively impacted certain of our customers which could lead to a decrease in demand for our services. We are exposed to intangible asset risk which could result in future impairment. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill is necessary, we would then record the appropriate charge, which could result in material charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. See Note 6 – “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for further details. Inflation may adversely affect our business operations in the future. Given the current macroeconomic environment, the U.S. government has and may attempt in the future to provide additional monetary stimulus, a fiscal stimulus, or both, to the U.S. economy. Such actions may lead to inflationary conditions in our cost base, particularly resulting in an increase in the compensation, commissions, and benefits components of our SG&A expenses. This may harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or cut costs enough to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. Significant legal actions could subject Kforce to substantial uninsured liabilities. Professional service providers are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice and other legal theories. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. We may also be subject to claims alleging violations of federal or state labor laws. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts, intentional acts, or crimes committed by our full-time employees or temporary staffing personnel. In some instances, we are contractually obligated to indemnify clients against such risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe the applicable standard of care, relevant Kforce or client policies and guidelines, or applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules, and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines, significant damage awards, or settlement expense. To reduce our exposure, we maintain insurance coverage for professional malpractice liability, fidelity, employment practices liability, and general liability in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. Kforce may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Kforce depends upon the abilities of its staff to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical, professional, and cleared government services personnel, who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. We expect competition for individuals with proven technical or professional skills for the foreseeable future. If qualified personnel are not available to us in sufficient numbers and upon economic terms acceptable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents Kforce’s success depends upon retaining the services of its management team and key operating employees. Kforce is highly dependent on its management team and expects that continued success will depend largely upon their efforts and abilities. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon Kforce. Success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified operating employees; particularly management, client servicing, and candidate recruiting employees. Kforce expends significant resources in the recruiting and training of its employees, as the pool of available applicants for these positions is limited. The loss of some of our key operating employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to establish and maintain client and candidate, professional, and technical relationships. Kforce depends on the proper functioning of its information systems. Kforce is dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating its business. Critical information systems are used in every aspect of Kforce’s daily operations, most significantly, in the identification and matching of staffing resources to client assignments and in the customer billing and consultant payment functions. Kforce’s information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards including the use of a third-party data processing center. However, Kforce and its systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters (we are headquartered in a hurricane-prone area), fire, terrorist acts, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software intrusions, computer viruses, and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and payroll records reliably, or to bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third-party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability we cannot warrant. Significant increases in payroll-related costs could adversely affect Kforce’s business. Kforce is required to pay a number of federal, state, and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and insurance premiums and claims, FICA, and Medicare, among others, for our employees. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs would likely have a material adverse effect on Kforce. Recently, many of the states in which Kforce conducts business have significantly increased their state unemployment tax rates in an effort to increase funding for unemployment benefits. Costs could also increase as a result of health care reforms or the possible imposition of additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. We may not be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover these potential cost increases. Kforce faces significant employment-related legal risk. Kforce employs people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Many of these individuals have access to client information systems and confidential information. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions; intentional misconduct; release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, confidential information, funds, or other property; discrimination and harassment claims; employment of illegal aliens; criminal activity; torts; or other claims. Such claims may result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, payment by Kforce of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse effects on our business. To reduce our exposure, we maintain insurance coverage for professional malpractice liability, fidelity, employment practices liability, and general liability in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not cover all potential claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. In this regard, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. U.S. Courts in recent years have been receiving large numbers of wage and hour class action claims alleging misclassification of overtime eligible workers and/or failure to pay overtime-eligible workers for all hours worked. In addition, declining tax revenues in the current economic environment have heightened state and federal scrutiny of independent contractor relationships. Kforce may be adversely affected by government regulation of the staffing business, and of the workplace. Our business is subject to regulation and licensing in many states. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. If we fail to comply, such failure could materially adversely affect Kforce’s financial results. Part of our business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could have a material adverse effect on Kforce. If Kforce becomes subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. Kforce provides workers’ compensation coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. In addition, we provide medical coverage to our employees through a partially self-insured program. If we become subject to substantial uninsured workers’ compensation or medical coverage liabilities, our financial results may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. Kforce is subject to periodic federal, state, and local tax audits for various tax years. Although Kforce attempts to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse effect on Kforce. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors and fraud, or in making all material information known in a timely manner to management. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Kforce have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The addition of offices and entry into new geographic markets may not occur on a timely basis or achieve anticipated financial results. Kforce’s growth depends in part on our ability to enter new vertical or geographic markets successfully. This expansion is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to: • develop, recruit, and maintain a base of qualified professionals within a new geographic market; • initiate, develop, train and sustain corporate client relationships in each new vertical or geographic market; • attract, hire, integrate, and retain qualified sales and sales support employees; and • accurately assess the demand in a new market. The addition of new offices and entry into new vertical or geographic markets typically results in increases in operating expenses, primarily due to increased employee headcount. Expenses are incurred in advance of forecasted revenue, and there is typically a delay before our new employees reach full performance potential. Additionally, demand for our services in new markets that we enter might also be less than we anticipate. If we are unable to enter new vertical or geographic markets in a cost-effective manner or if demand for our services in new markets does not meet or exceed our forecasts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Historically, we have closed and consolidated offices to improve efficiency, and further closures or consolidation may occur depending on market and competitive conditions. Our business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships, and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with our customers are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, if our performance does not meet expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. We rely on short-term contracts with most of our clients. Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of our business, other than in our HLS and GS segments, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Further, our reliance on short-term contracts exerts continued pressure on us when we try to renew contracts with existing clients who may seek better terms upon renewal. 12 Table of Contents Our “offshore” outsourcing solutions are limited. Many staffing customers are now seeking an offshore solution to support their technology and business process function and, as a result, a significant amount of technology and financial staffing may be replaced by offshore resources. We provide a limited technology staffing solution through two offices in the Philippines to certain clients whose contracts were acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of PCCI. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against other offshore solution providers or that we will not lose significant market share and revenue. We do not provide a Vendor Management System (“VMS”) solution. Many staffing customers are seeking to consolidate their use of staffing services through the use of a VMS solution. Kforce provides consultants to these clients through other staffing companies who utilize a VMS solution, but we do not currently provide this service directly to our clients. There can be no assurance that we can continue to effectively compete with those companies that provide a VMS solution. If we must provide a VMS solution, we could incur significant costs. Kforce’s current market share may decrease as a result of limited barriers to entry for new competitors and discontinuation of clients outsourcing their staffing needs. Kforce faces significant competition in the markets we serve, and there are limited barriers to entry for new competitors. The competition among staffing services firms is intense. Kforce competes for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, temporary personnel agencies, search firms, and other providers of staffing services. A number of our competitors possess substantially greater resources than we do. From time to time, we experience significant pressure from our clients to reduce price levels. During these periods, we may face increased competitive pricing pressures and may not be able to recruit the personnel necessary to fulfill our clients’ needs. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully compete. Competition for acquisition opportunities may restrict Kforce’s future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. Kforce has increased its market share and presence in the staffing industry through strategic acquisitions of companies that have complemented or enhanced its business. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. In the future, this could limit our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. In addition, Kforce may be limited by its ability to obtain financing to consummate desirable acquisitions. Kforce may face significant risk arising from acquisitions. Kforce may face difficulties integrating acquisitions into existing operations and acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures, or expose Kforce to unforeseen liabilities. Kforce continually evaluates opportunities to acquire staffing companies that complement or enhance our business and frequently has preliminary acquisition discussions with such companies. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into a single business; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, integration expenses, and exposure to unforeseen liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Decreases in patient occupancy at healthcare clients’ facilities may adversely affect the profitability of Kforce’s business. Demand for temporary healthcare staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at healthcare clients’ facilities. When a hospital’s occupancy increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, clients may reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. Kforce may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. This reduction in occupancy could adversely affect the demand for services and Kforce’s profitability. 13 Table of Contents Future changes in reimbursement trends could hamper our clients’ ability to pay Kforce. Many of Kforce’s healthcare clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced government rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed-care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients’ reimbursements. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients’ cash flow, hampering their ability to pay us. This situation could have a significant impact on our cash flow. Provisions in Kforce’s articles and bylaws and under Florida law may have certain anti-takeover effects. Kforce’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. In particular, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board of directors and permit the removal of directors only for cause. Additionally, management may issue up to 15 million shares of preferred stock, and fix the rights and preferences thereof, without a further vote of the shareholders. In addition, certain of our officers and managers have employment agreements containing certain provisions that call for substantial payments to be made to such employees in certain circumstances upon a change in control. Certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of Kforce, including an acquisition in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. Moreover, the existence of these provisions could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Kforce’s stock price may be volatile. Kforce’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “KFRC.” The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, the employment services industry, or other developments affecting us, our clients, or our competitors; some of which may be unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, especially The NASDAQ Global Select Market tier, along with market prices for staffing companies, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices they pay. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. 14 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR GOVERNMENT BUSINESSES In 2006, Kforce acquired PCCI and Bradson, which were both merged during 2007 into Kforce Government Solutions (“KGS”). In 2008, Kforce acquired RDI, which was merged into KGS during 2009. KGS is substantially dedicated to contracting with and serving U.S. Federal Government agencies (the “Federal Agency Business”), primarily as a prime contractor. In addition, Kforce supplies services to the Federal Government, primarily as a staffing services provider to federal prime contractors. Federal contractors, including KGS and Kforce face a number of risks, including the following: Our failure to comply with complex federal procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties, including suspension and debarment from doing business with the Federal Government. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of Federal Government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. On December 15, 2009, the United States Department of Interior (“DOI”) suspended KGS from seeking new Federal business or renewing existing business, and proposed to debar KGS, for failure to follow procurement regulations relating to conflicts of interest. The suspension and proposed debarment was withdrawn on December 29, 2009, pursuant to the terms of a three year Administrative Agreement entered into between KGS and DOI. The Administrative Agreement imposes training requirements, oversight and controls on KGS for a period of three years. Failure of KGS to comply with the Administrative Agreement during this period could have material adverse impact on KGS and Kforce, including suspension and debarment from doing business with the Federal Government. The Federal Government also may in the future reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal Government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. Unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. Federal agencies can audit and review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies Kforce has acquired or may acquire, or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could force us to refund previously recognized revenues. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the Federal Government generally or with any specific agency, if our reputation or relationships with government agencies were impaired, or if the Government otherwise were to cease doing business with us or were to significantly decrease the amount of business it does with us, our revenue, cash flows and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our Federal Agency Business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government personnel and agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the Federal Agency Business. There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our revenue growth and margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, larger client bases, and greater brand recognition. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. 15 Table of Contents Loss of our General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule contracts or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business. GSA schedule contracts constitute a significant percentage of revenue from our federal agency clients. If we were to lose one or more of these contracts or other contracting vehicles, we could lose revenue and our operating results could be adversely affected. These contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees could include intentional failures to comply with Federal Government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could adversely affect our business. Security breaches in sensitive government information systems could result in the loss of our clients and cause negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for Federal Government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could materially reduce our revenue. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the Federal Government could cause us to lose revenue. Changes in Federal Government fiscal or spending policies could adversely affect our government agency business. For example, the Federal Government has recently begun to in-source certain functions. If this trend continues, it could adversely affect our business. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by decreases in Federal Government spending. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When government agencies must operate under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in any new initiatives being delayed, and potentially cancelled. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 