Item 1A. Risk Factors. Kforce faces significant employment-related legal risk. Kforce employs people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Many of these individuals have access to client information systems and confidential information. An inherent risk of such activity includes possible claims of errors and omissions; intentional misconduct; release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, confidential information, funds, or other property; cyber security breaches affecting our clients and/or us; discrimination and harassment claims; employment of illegal aliens; criminal activity; torts; or other claims. Such claims may result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, civil litigation, payment by Kforce of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse effects on our business. To reduce our exposure, we maintain insurance coverage for professional malpractice liability, fidelity, employment practices liability, and general liability in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not cover all potential claims against us, may require us to meet a deductible or may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. In this regard, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. U.S. Courts in recent years have been receiving large numbers of wage and hour class action claims alleging misclassification of overtime eligible workers and/or failure to pay overtime-eligible workers for all hours worked. In addition, there appears to be a heightened state and federal scrutiny of independent contractor relationships, which could adversely affect us given that we utilize a significant number of independent contractors to perform our services. An adverse determination of the independent contractor status of these firms could result in a substantial tax or other liabilities. Kforce may be adversely affected by government regulation of the staffing business, and of the workplace. Our business is subject to regulation and licensing in many states. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary licenses or approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. If we fail to comply, such failure could materially adversely affect Kforce’s financial results. A large part of our business entails employing individuals on a temporary basis and placing such individuals in clients’ workplaces. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship could have a material adverse effect on Kforce. Our collection, use and retention of personal information and personal health information create risks that may harm our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and retain personal information of our associates and flexible employees and their dependants including, without limitation, full names, social security numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information. We also have access to, receive and use personal health information in the ordinary course of our HIM businesses. We use commercially available information security technologies to protect such information in digital format. We also use security and business controls to limit access to such information. However, employees or third parties may be able to circumvent these measures and acquire or misuse such information, resulting in breaches of privacy, and errors in the storage, use or transmission of such information may result in breaches of privacy. Privacy breaches may require notification and other remedies, which can be costly, and which may have other serious adverse consequences for our business, including regulatory penalties and fines, claims for breach of contract, claims for damages, adverse publicity, reduced demand for our services by clients and/or flex employment candidates, harm to our reputation, and regulatory oversight by state or federal agencies. The possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. 10 Table of Contents Kforce may be adversely affected by immigration restrictions. Our Tech business utilizes a significant number of foreign nationals employed by us on work visas, primarily under the H-1B visa classification. The H-1B visa classification that enables U.S. employers to hire qualified foreign nationals is subject to legislative and administrative changes, as well as changes in the application of standards and enforcement. Immigration laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political developments and levels of economic activity. Current and future restrictions on the availability of such visas could restrain our ability to employ the skilled professionals we need to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2009, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (“USCIS”) significantly increased its scrutiny of companies seeking to sponsor, renew or transfer H-1B status, including Kforce and Kforce’s subcontractors. On January 8, 2010, the USCIS issued internal guidance to its field offices that appears to narrow the eligibility criteria for H-1B status in the context of staffing services. In addition to USCIS restrictions, certain aspects of the H-1B program are also subject to regulation and review by the U.S. Department of Labor and U.S. Department of State, which have recently increased enforcement activities in the program. A narrow interpretation and vigorous enforcement, or legislative action relating to immigration, including legislation intended to reform existing immigration law, could adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign national labor and/or renew existing foreign national consultants on assignment, and could subject us to fines, penalties and sanctions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep or replace all foreign nationals currently on assignment, or continue to hire foreign national talent at the same rates as in the past. Kforce may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity to support operations. On September 20, 2011, Kforce entered into a Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with a syndicate led by Bank of America, N.A., which was amended on March 30, 2012 and December 27, 2013 (as amended to date, the “Credit Facility”). The Firm executed a Second Amendment and Joinder on December 27, 2013, increasing the original borrowing capacity up from $100 million to $135 million by executing the accordion feature under the Credit Facility. Kforce has a remaining accordion option of $15 million. The maximum borrowings available to Kforce under the Credit Facility are limited to: (a) a revolving credit facility of up to $135 million (the “Revolving Loan Amount”) and (b) a $15 million sub-limit included in the Credit Facility for letters of credit. Kforce’s liquidity may be adversely impacted by covenants in our Credit Facility. Borrowing availability under the Credit Facility is limited to the remainder of (a) the lesser of (i) $135 million minus the four week average aggregate weekly payroll of employees assigned to work for customers, or (ii) 85% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, plus 80% of the net amount of eligible unbilled accounts receivable, plus 80% of the net amount of eligible employee placement accounts, minus certain minimum availability reserves, and in either case, minus (b) the aggregate outstanding amount under the Credit Facility. Under the Credit Facility, Kforce is subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants including (but not limited to) the maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.00 to 1.00 if the Firm’s availability under the Credit Facility is less than the greater of 10% of the aggregate amount of the commitment of all of the lenders under the Credit Facility and $11.0 million. Kforce had availability under the Credit Facility of $43.2 million as of December 31, 2013; therefore, the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. Kforce believes that it will be able to maintain the minimum availability requirement; however, in the event that Kforce is unable to do so, Kforce may fail the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, which would constitute an event of default. At no time during the existence of the Credit Facility, or any of its predecessors (i.e., the Credit Agreement, the First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) have we failed to meet the minimum availability and fixed charge coverage ratio requirements. If we did not comply with these financial covenants, such a breach of the Credit Facility could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and could result, among other things, in the acceleration of all amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” portion of the MD&A in this annual report. 11 Table of Contents Kforce’s temporary staffing business could be adversely impacted by the health care reform. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 that were both signed into law in March 2010 could have an adverse effect on Kforce by increasing the cost of providing temporary staffing services. The provisions of these Acts went into effect in 2014. While we believe the costs associated with the law should have less impact on Kforce than many other staffing companies due to the level and scope of benefits we already offer, a delay in or inability to increase bill rates charged to our customers could result in a reduction of our Flex gross profit. We are exposed to intangible asset risk which could result in future impairment. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our (or in one or more of our reporting units’) expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates, or changes in our business strategy have resulted, and could result in the future, in the need to perform an impairment analysis. If we were to conclude that a future write down of our goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary it could result in material charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. See Note 6 – “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates” for further details, including the details regarding the goodwill impairment losses within our GS reporting unit. Significant legal actions could subject Kforce to substantial uninsured liabilities. Professional service providers are subject to legal actions alleging malpractice, breach of contract and other legal theories. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. We may also be subject to claims alleging violations of federal or state labor laws. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts, intentional acts, or crimes committed by our full-time employees or temporary staffing personnel. In some instances, we are contractually obligated to indemnify clients against such risks. A failure to observe the applicable standard of care, relevant Kforce or client policies and guidelines, or applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules, and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines, significant damage awards, or settlement expense. To reduce our exposure, we maintain insurance coverage for professional malpractice liability, fidelity, employment practices liability and general liability, in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. We face certain risks in collecting our trade accounts receivable. We generate a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from our customers. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include business failures, turmoil in the financial and credit markets, sluggish or recessionary U.S. economic conditions, our exposure to customers in high-risk sectors such as the financial services industry, and declines in the credit worthiness of our customers. See Note 1 – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Kforce’s success depends upon retaining the services of its management team and key operating employees. Kforce is highly dependent on its management team and expects that continued success will depend largely upon their efforts and abilities. The loss of the services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon Kforce. Success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified operating employees; particularly management, client servicing, and candidate recruiting employees. Kforce expends significant resources in the recruiting and training of its employees, as the pool of available applicants for these positions is limited. The loss of some of our key operating employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to establish and maintain client and candidate, professional, and technical relationships. The financial markets may experience significant turmoil, which may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under our Credit Facility, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on any of the amounts available under our Credit Facility, or a substantial portion thereof. The Credit Facility expires on September 20, 2016. If we attempt to obtain future financing in addition to, or as a replacement of, our Credit Facility, financial market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing on favorable terms. 12 Table of Contents Kforce depends on the proper functioning of its information systems. Kforce is dependent on the proper functioning of information systems in operating its business. Critical information systems are used in every aspect of Kforce’s daily operations, most significantly, in the identification and matching of staffing resources to client assignments and in the customer billing and consultant or vendor payment functions. Kforce’s information systems are vulnerable to natural disasters (we are headquartered and our leased data center are located in a hurricane-prone area), fire or casualty theft, technical failures, terrorist acts, cyber security breaches, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software intrusions, computer viruses, and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could prove difficult or impossible, causing a material adverse effect on our business. Also, any theft or misuse of information resulting from a security breach could result in, among other things, loss of significant and/or sensitive information, litigation by affected parties, financial obligations resulting from such theft or misuse, higher insurance premiums, governmental investigations, negative reactions from current and potential future customers (including potential negative financial ramifications under certain customer contract provisions) and poor publicity and any of these could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we depend on third-party vendors for certain functions (including the operations of our leased data center), whose future performance and reliability we cannot control. Significant increases in payroll-related costs could adversely affect Kforce’s business. Kforce is required to pay a number of federal, state, and local payroll and related costs, including unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation and insurance premiums and claims, FICA, and Medicare, among others, related to our employees. Significant increases in the effective rates of any payroll-related costs would likely have a material adverse effect on Kforce. Over the last few years, many of the states in which Kforce conducts business have continued to significantly increase their state unemployment tax rates in an effort to increase funding for unemployment benefits. Costs could also increase as a result of health care reforms or the possible imposition of additional requirements and restrictions related to the placement of personnel. We may not be able to increase the fees charged to our clients in a timely manner or in a sufficient amount to cover these potential cost increases. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. Kforce is subject to periodic federal, state, and local tax audits for various tax years. Although Kforce attempts to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have a material adverse effect on Kforce. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors and fraud, or in making all material information known in a timely manner to management. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Kforce have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships, and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with our customers are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, if our performance does not meet our customers’ expectations, our revenues and operating results could be materially harmed. 13 Table of Contents We rely on short-term engagements with most of our clients. Because long-term engagements are not a significant part of our business, other than in our GS segment, future financial results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Kforce’s current market share may decrease as a result of limited barriers to entry for new competitors and discontinuation of clients outsourcing their staffing needs. We face significant competition in the markets we serve, and there are limited barriers to entry for new competitors. The competition among staffing services firms is intense. Kforce competes for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, temporary personnel agencies, search firms, and other providers of staffing services. Some of our competitors possess substantially greater resources than we do. From time to time, we experience significant pressure from our clients to reduce price levels. During these periods, we may face increased competitive pricing pressures and may not be able to recruit the personnel necessary to fulfill our clients’ needs. We also face the risk that certain of our current and prospective clients will decide to provide similar services internally. Competition for acquisition opportunities may restrict Kforce’s future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. Kforce has increased its market share and presence in the staffing industry partly through strategic acquisitions of companies that have complemented or enhanced its business. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. In the future, this could limit our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. In addition, Kforce may be limited by its ability to obtain financing to consummate desirable acquisitions. Kforce may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Kforce depends upon the abilities of its staff to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical, professional, and cleared government services personnel, who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. We expect significant competition for individuals with proven technical or professional skills for the foreseeable future. If qualified personnel are not available to us in sufficient numbers and upon economic terms acceptable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Kforce may face significant risk arising from acquisitions or dispositions. Kforce may face difficulties integrating future acquisitions into existing operations and acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures, or expose Kforce to unforeseen liabilities. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into a single business; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, integration expenses, and exposure to unforeseen liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents In addition, dispositions involve risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us including: • we may not be able to identify acceptable buyers; • we may divest a business at a price or on terms that are different than anticipated; • we may lose key employees; • divestitures could adversely affect our profitability and, under certain circumstances, require us to record impairment charges or a loss as a result of the transaction; • completing divestitures requires expenses and management effort; • we may become subject to indemnity obligations and/or remain liable or contingently liable for obligations related to the divested business or operations; • the retention of certain continuing liabilities under contracts; • covenants not to compete could impair our ability to attract and retain customers; and • we may face difficulties in the separation of the divested operations, services, products and personnel. Provisions in Kforce’s articles and bylaws and under Florida law may have certain anti-takeover effects. Kforce’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. In particular, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board of directors and permit the removal of directors only for cause. Additionally, management may issue up to 15 million shares of preferred stock, and fix the rights and preferences thereof, without a further vote of the shareholders. In addition, certain of our officers and managers have employment agreements containing certain provisions that call for substantial payments to be made to such employees in certain circumstances upon a change in control. Certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of Kforce, including an acquisition in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. Moreover, the existence of these provisions could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Kforce’s stock price may be volatile. Kforce’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “KFRC.” The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, the employment services industry, or other developments affecting us, our clients, or our competitors; some of which may be unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, especially The NASDAQ Global Select Market tier, along with market prices for staffing companies, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices they pay. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses. 15 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR GOVERNMENT BUSINESSES Our GS segment is substantially dedicated to contracting with and serving U.S. Federal Government agencies (the “Federal Agency Business”). In addition, Kforce supplies services to the Federal Government. Federal contractors, including Kforce face a number of risks, including the following: Our failure to comply with complex federal procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business, incur additional costs, and subject us to a variety of penalties, including suspension and debarment from doing business with the Federal Government. We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of Federal Government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk, affect how we do business with our federal agency clients, and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review, audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. The Federal Government also may reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impact our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the Federal Government; each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. Unfavorable government audit results could force us to refund previously recognized revenues and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. Federal agencies can audit and review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, incurred cost submissions and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies Kforce has acquired or may acquire, or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could force us to refund previously recognized revenues. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. We are dependent upon the ability of government agencies to administratively manage our contracts. After we are awarded a contract and the contract is funded by the Federal Government, we are still dependent upon the ability of the relevant agency to administratively manage our contract. We can be adversely impacted by delays in the start-up of already awarded and funded projects, including delays due to shortages of acquisition and contracting personnel within the Federal Government agencies. The failure by Congress to approve budgets, raise the U.S. debt ceiling or avoid sequestration on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support could delay, reduce or stop federal spending and cause us to lose revenue or impair our intangible assets. On an annual basis, Congress must approve and the President must sign the appropriation bills that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. If Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities and is unable to appropriate funds or pass the annual budget on a timely basis, as has been the case in recent years, there may be delays, reductions or cessations of funding for our services and solutions. In addition, from time to time it has been necessary for Congress to raise the U.S. debt ceiling in order to allow for borrowing necessary to fund government operations. If that becomes necessary again and Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling on a timely basis, there may be delays, reductions or cessations of funding for our services and solutions. Furthermore, legislatively mandated cuts in federal programs, known as sequestration, could result in delays, reductions or cessation of funding for our services and solutions. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the Federal Government could cause us to lose revenue. Changes in Federal Government fiscal or spending policies could materially adversely affect our government agency business; in particular, our business could be materially adversely affected by decreases in Federal Government spending. 16 Table of Contents Our federal agency business is dependent upon maintaining our reputation, our relationships and our performance. The reputation and relationships that we have established and currently maintain with government agencies are important to maintaining existing business and identifying new business. If our reputation or relationships were damaged, it could have a material adverse effect. In addition, if our performance does not meet agency expectations, our revenues and operating results could be materially harmed. Competition is intense in the federal agency business. There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. Even when a contract is awarded to us, competitors may protest such awards. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources, larger client bases, and greater brand recognition than we do. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide. Loss of our General Services Administration (“GSA”) Schedules or other contracting vehicles could impair our ability to win new business. GSA Schedules constitute a significant percentage of revenues from our federal agency clients. If we were to lose one or more of these Schedules or other contracting vehicles, we could lose revenues and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. These Schedules or contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. Like all government contractors, we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by our employees could include intentional failures to comply with Federal Government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, seeking reimbursement for improper expenses, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and precautions to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling such risks or losses, which could materially adversely affect our business. Security breaches in sensitive government information systems could result in the loss of our clients and cause negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information used in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for Federal Government clients. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could materially reduce our revenues. We are the prime contractor on many of our contracts and if our subcontractors fail to appropriately perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future contracts could be harmed. For many of our contracts where we are the prime contractor, we involve subcontractors, which we rely on to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed or customer concerns about the subcontractor’s performance. In addition, the contracting parties on which we rely may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. A failure by one or more of those contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 