Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which are some of the factors that could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are not necessarily the only ones that we may face. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend primarily on the levels of net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on loans and securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest expense on deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income is dependent upon the volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and upon the interest rate which is earned or paid on these items. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice at different times, or on a different basis, than our interest-earning assets. Rising rates generally increase borrower preference for variable rate products which we typically keep in our portfolio. Additionally, existing adjustable rate loans can be expected to reprice to higher rates, both of which could be expected to have a favorable impact on interest income. Alternatively, continuing low interest rates could have a negative impact on our interest income as new loans are put on the books at comparatively low rates and our existing adjustable rate loans reprice to lower rates. While we attempt to adjust our asset/liability mix in order to limit the magnitude of interest rate risk, interest rate risk management is not an exact science. Rather, it involves estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact the yields earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities. Moreover, rate changes can vary depending upon the level of rates and competitive factors. Further discussion of interest rate risk can be found under the caption “Asset/Liability Management” in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of LSB Financial’s 2005 Annual Report to Shareholders. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not have to increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. While management attempts to provide an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to cover probable incurred losses based on loan portfolio growth, past loss experience, general economic conditions, information about specific borrower situations, and other factors, future adjustments to reserves may become necessary, and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used with respect to such factors. Additionally, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require the recognition of additions to the allowance based upon their judgments of information available at the time of their examination. An economic slowdown in Tippecanoe County could affect our business. Our primary market area for deposits and loans is Tippecanoe County, Indiana. An economic slowdown in this area could hurt our business. Possible consequences of such a downturn could include the following: · increases in loan delinquencies and foreclosures; · declines in the value of real estate and other collateral for loans; and · a decline in the demand for our products and services. 30 We are subject to extensive regulation which limit the manner and scope of our business activities. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on them. Policies adopted or required by these governmental authorities can affect our business operations and the availability, growth and distribution of Lafayette Savings' investments, borrowings and deposits. In addition, the OTS periodically conducts examinations of LSB Financial and Lafayette Savings and may impose various requirements or sanctions. See “Regulation” in the description of our Business in Item 1 above for detailed information on the laws and regulations to which we are subject. Changes in laws, regulations and policies could adversely affect our business. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Changes in applicable laws or policies could materially affect our business, and the likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. Our increased emphasis on short-term or adjustable rate multi-family, commercial real estate and land development lending and commercial business and consumer lending may expose us to increased credit risk. One of the greatest risks facing lenders is credit risk, that is, the risk of losing principal and interest due to a borrower’s failure to perform according to the terms of a loan agreement. At December 31, 2005, $141.5 million, or 41.65%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family, commercial real estate and land development loans. Multi-family, commercial real estate and land development loans generally involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four-family loans because they typically have large balances and are more affected by adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on land development loans, loans secured by multi-family properties and commercial real estate often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties and the business which operate from within them, repayment of such loans may be affected by factors outside the borrower’s control, such as adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy or changes in government regulation. At December 31, 2005, $20.2 million, or 5.94% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans. Commercial loans generally have greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans also typically have much larger loan balances than residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2005, $22.6 million, or 6.66% of our total loan portfolio consisted of consumer loans. Consumer loans generally involve greater risk than residential mortgage loans because they are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. Although we undertake a variety of underwriting, monitoring and reserving protections with respect to these types of loans, there can be no guarantee that we will not suffer unexpected losses. we have diversified our portfolio by increasing our emphasis on the origination of short-term or adjustable rate multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial business and consumer loans. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and obtain loans. We operate in a competitive market for both originating real estate and other loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating real estate loans comes primarily from other savings institutions, commercial banks, credit unions and mortgage bankers making loans secured by real estate located in our primary market area. Other savings institutions, commercial banks, credit unions and finance companies provide vigorous competition in consumer lending. In addition, non-bank competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to us. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 31 Item 