Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company Agricultural Risks. Wine-making and grape-growing are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Diseases, pests, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions can materially and adversely affect the quality, quantity and cost of grapes available to the Company from its own vineyards and from outside suppliers, thereby materially and adversely affecting the supply of the Company’s products and its profitability. During the 2007–2008 season, Chile experienced a period of drought which primarily impacted the non–irrigated wine zones of the country. Most of the Company vineyards have drip irrigation; accordingly, the impact of the drought on the Company’s vineyards has been minimal. Future freezes or drought conditions in Chile could severely affect the quantity or quality of the production of wine by the Company. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Chilean Wine Industry Overview.” Phylloxera, a pest which attacks the roots of grapevines, has widely infested vineyards outside of Chile but to date has never been found in Chilean vineyards. The Company, like most Chilean wine grape growers, still uses the French root varieties which are susceptible to phylloxera. While the Company carefully screens new root stock for signs of infestation, and adheres to the regulations imposed by the Servicio Agrícola y Ganadero (the “Chilean Agriculture Service”) requiring that all vegetation introduced into Chile be isolated under observation for a period of two years, there can be no assurance that the Company’s vineyards and other Chilean vineyards will continue to be phylloxera-free. Infestation could have a material adverse effect on the Company while vineyards are being replanted and as they come into full production. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Chilean Wine Industry Overview — Phylloxera.” Risks Associated with Higher Taxes, Tariffs. In 2007, the Company’s export sales to third parties and sales of its foreign subsidiaries represented 80.5% of total revenues. Wines are subject to a number of taxes and tariffs, including excise taxes in the United States, in the UK and the Company’s other principal export markets. Additional increases in such taxes and tariffs could depress wine consumption in those markets and could adversely affect the Company’s sales. In addition, there is a risk that other countries could impose or threaten to impose restrictions on imports of certain countries’ wines in connection with trade negotiations with such countries. Although Chile has not been the specific target of such actions or threats from the United States, the European Union or other countries, if restrictions were imposed on Chilean wines, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 5 Increases in Chilean taxes on wine could adversely affect the Company’s wine sales in Chile. Government Regulation. The production and sale of wine is subject to extensive regulation within and outside of Chile. Those regulations control matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. For example, it is the current policy of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives that any statements made by a wine producer promoting the potential health benefits of wine must be balanced and must include appropriate statements regarding the established harmful effects of alcohol use. In recent years, U.S. federal and state regulators have required warning labels and signage. Currently the Chilean Congress is discussing a new law that will regulate labeling of alcoholic beverages in Chile. There can be no assurance that new or revised regulations or increased licensing fees and related requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its results of operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Government Regulation.” Future expansion of the Company’s existing facilities and development of new vineyards and wineries may be limited by present and future zoning ordinances and other legal requirements. Availability of water and requirements for handling waste water can limit the Company’s growth. While the Company believes that it will continue to be in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that future legislative or regulatory developments will not impose restrictions which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Government Regulation.” Dependence on Distributors. The Company relies on distributors to sell its products in export markets. Sales to the Company’s largest distributor, Banfi Products Corporation (“Banfi”) in the United States represented 12.3% of the Company’s total export revenues in 2007 and 15.0% of total export revenues in 2006. Sales to the Company’s five largest distributors, including Banfi, represented 29.4% and 26.5% of total export revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of the Company’s total export revenues in the future. The Company has written agreements with most of its distributors—usually one– to two–year terms, automatically renewable. In addition, the Company’s strategy to expand sales in major export markets is to a large extent dependent on the performance of its distributors. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Company Sales — Export Markets — Distribution in Export Markets.” Distributors and retailers of the Company’s products often offer wines which compete directly with the Company’s products for shelf space and consumers. Accordingly, there is a risk that these distributors or retailers may give higher priority to products of the Company’s competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company’s distributors and retailers will continue to purchase the Company’s products or provide the Company’s products with adequate levels of promotional support. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Company Sales — Export Markets — Distribution in Export Markets.” Dependence on Suppliers. The Company relies on Cristalerías de Chile S.A. (“Cristalerías”) to supply almost all of its bottle requirements. Cristalerías is a principal shareholder of one of the Company’s main competitors, Viña Santa Rita S.A. (“Santa Rita”). Although the Company believes that alternate suppliers are available, an interruption in the supply of bottles from Cristalerías to the Company for any reason could result in a short-term material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company has a license from Tetra Pak de Chile Comercial Ltda. (“Tetra Pak Chile”) to package wine in Tetra Brik packages, and purchases these unassembled pre-printed packages from Tetra Pak Chile. Wine sold in Tetra Brik packages accounted for approximately 70.5% and 54.9% of the Company’s domestic sales by volume and value, respectively, in 2007 and 71.2% and 56.0%, respectively, in 2006. Although the Company believes that alternate suppliers are available, an interruption in the supply of Tetra Brik packages to the Company for any reason could result in a short-term material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Bottling.” The Company currently relies on approximately 650 outside vineyards for supplies of grapes and approximately 50 producers for bulk wine. In 2007, approximately 65%, of the grapes used in the production of the Company’s premium, varietal and, bi-varietal wines were purchased by the Company from independent growers in Chile. Additionally, in 2007, the Company purchased grapes and bulk wine required to produce approximately 100% of the popular wines sold by the Company. Most of the Company’s agreements with growers only cover one 6 year’s production and are renewed from year to year. In 2007, the Company had long-term contracts with up to approximately 21% of its growers. Disruptions of supplies of grapes or wine or increases in prices from these outside suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Competition. The wine industry in Chile and in the Company’s export markets is intensely competitive. In Chile and in approximately 125 other countries, the Company’s wines compete with wines and other beverages from Chile and other countries. Chilean wines, in general, compete with wines produced in the United States, Europe, Australia, South Africa, South America and New Zealand. In addition, the Company’s wines compete with other beverages including soft drinks, liquors, beer and, in Chile, pisco (a Chilean grape spirit). Many of the Company’s competitors in Chile and abroad have significantly greater financial resources than the Company. Due to competitive factors, the Company may not be able to increase prices of its wines in line with rising farming, vinification, selling and promotional costs. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” There can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be able to compete successfully with its current competitors or that it will not face greater competition from other wineries and beverage manufacturers. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Company Sales — Chilean Markets — Local Competition” and “ — Company Sales — Export Markets — Export Sales and Competition.” Dependence on Consumer Spending. The success of the Company’s business depends on a number of factors which may affect the level of consumer spending and consumer spending patterns in Chile and in the Company’s export markets, including the general state of the economy, tax rates, the deductibility of business entertainment expenses under applicable tax laws, and consumer preferences, confidence and income. Changes in consumer spending in Chile and in the Company’s export markets can affect the quantity and price of wines that customers are willing to purchase. Such changes may result in reduced demand and lower prices for the Company’s products, limitations on the Company’s ability to pass through increased taxes and higher product costs to price-sensitive consumers, increased levels of selling and promotional expenses and decreased sales of the Company’s higher-priced premium and varietal wines. Consequently, changes in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Difficulty of Enforcing Judgments Under U.S. Federal Securities Laws. The ability of a purchaser of American Depository Shares (“ADS”) of the Company to enforce judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors and executive officers may be limited by several factors. The Company is a sociedad anónima abierta (an “open stock corporation”) organized under the laws of Chile. All of the company’s directors and officers and many of its advisors reside outside of the United States (principally in Chile). All or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company and of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States on the Company or its officers, directors or advisors, or to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. The Company’s Estatutos (the “By-Laws”) provide that all legal actions brought by shareholders in their capacity as such, or among shareholders and the Company or its directors and executive officers, must be submitted to arbitration in Chile by an arbitrator chosen by mutual consent of both parties. If the parties cannot select an arbitrator acceptable to both, an arbitrator will be appointed by the ordinary courts of Chile which, the Company believes, would likely appoint a Chilean arbitrator. The By-Laws also provide that the arbitrator would act as an árbitro arbitrador, who under Chilean law would not be required to apply any particular body of law or procedures and would be authorized to decide the matter in accordance with his or her view of what is just and equitable. Although the Ley de Sociedades Anónimas (“Chilean Corporation Law”) grants shareholders the right to bring actions against a Chilean company in the ordinary courts of Chile in certain cases, the Chilean Supreme Court has held in one case that a shareholder may not submit a claim against a corporation to the ordinary courts where, as in the case of the Company, the By-Laws provide only for arbitration. This case, however, would not be controlling precedent in a subsequent case under Chilean law. Therefore, a Chilean court could interpret Chilean law and the By-Laws to require that a claim brought by a holder of ADS predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws be 7 submitted in Chile to arbitration. Moreover, because an arbitrator is not required to apply any particular body of law or procedure to decide a matter, it is not clear that an arbitrator would consider a claim predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws. Under Chilean law, therefore, there is uncertainty regarding the ability of ADS holders to bring actions against the Company or its officers, directors or advisors based upon U.S. federal securities law, whether in Chilean courts or arbitration proceedings. In addition, a court in the United States might require that a claim predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the By-Laws. In that event, a purchaser of ADS would be effectively precluded from pursuing remedies under the U.S. federal securities laws in U.S. courts. The Company has been advised by its Chilean counsel, Cruzat, Ortúzar & Mackenna Ltda. – Baker & McKenzie Abogados, that no treaty exists between the United States and Chile for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Chilean courts, however, have enforced judgments rendered by United States courts by virtue of the legal principle of reciprocity and comity, consisting of the review in Chile of the United States judgment in order to ascertain whether certain basic principles of due process and public policy have been respected without reviewing the merits of the subject matter in the case. Nevertheless, the Company has been advised by Cruzat, Ortúzar & Mackenna Ltda. – Baker & McKenzie Abogados that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Chile of judgments rendered by United States courts in actions predicated upon the civil liability of the U.S. federal securities laws. Seasonality. The wine industry in general, and the Company in particular, have historically experienced, and are expected to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in revenues and net income. In the past, the Company has had lower sales and net income during the first quarter and higher sales and net income during the third and fourth quarters. The Company expects this trend to continue. Sales can fluctuate significantly between quarters, depending on the timing of certain holidays and promotional periods, and on the rate at which distributor inventories are depleted through sales to wine retailers. Sales volume tends to decrease if distributors begin a quarter with larger inventory levels, which is typically the case in the first quarter of each year. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Seasonality.” Risks Relating to Chile Dependence on the Chilean Economy. As of December 2007, 91% of the Company’s assets were located in Chile. In 2007 and 2006, sales in the Chilean market accounted for approximately 19.5% and 23.1%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenues. Historically, domestic wine sales show a high degree of correlation with the economic situation prevailing in a country. Accordingly, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions prevailing in Chile. The main Chilean indicators for 2006 and 2007 were: · GDP grew 4.3% in 2006 and 5.1% in 2007. · Private consumption grew 6.5% in 2006 and 7.7% in 2007. · The unemployment rate was 6.0% and 7.2% in December 2006 and 2007, respectively. As of March 2008, the unemployment rate was 7.6%, compared to 6.7% in March 2007. · As a percentage of GDP, investment in fixed assets was 24.2% in 2006 and 25.8% in 2007. Source: Central Bank of Chile. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected by changes which the Company has no control over, including: · the economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has a substantial influence on many aspects of the private sector; · other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile; and 8 · regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations also depend to some extent on the level of economic activity in both Latin American and other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Volatile and Illiquid Nature of the Market for the Common Stock in Chile. The Common Stock of the Company is traded on the Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago (the “Santiago Stock Exchange”), the Bolsa Electrónica de Chile and the Bolsa de Corredores — Bolsa de Valores (collectively, the “Chilean Exchanges”). The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Santiago Stock Exchange, which is Chile’s principal exchange and which accounted for over 85% of Chile’s equity trading volume in 2007, had a market capitalization of approximately US$213 billion as of December 31, 2007, and an average monthly trading of US$4,336 million. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 47.6% of the aggregate market capitalization of the Santiago Stock Exchange as of December 31, 2007. Daily share trading volumes on the Santiago Stock Exchange are on average substantially lower than those on the principal national securities exchanges in the United States. The ten most widely-traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 47.3% of all trading volume on the Santiago Stock Exchange in 2007. During 2007, approximately 22% of the securities listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange traded an average of 85% or more of the trading days. In addition, the Chilean securities markets may be affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. Currency Fluctuations. The Chilean peso has been subject to large fluctuations in value in the past, most recently during 2004 to 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. See Item 3 — “Key Information — Exchange Rates.” Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and other currencies affect the performance of the Company’s ADS, as well as the Company’s financial condition and results of operation in a variety of ways. Because the ADS are denominated in U.S. dollars, a decrease in the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the value of the Company and its Common Stock underlying the ADS. Whether a depreciation of the Chilean peso would adversely affect the value of the Company and its assets would depend on a variety of factors, including the ability of the Company and investors to access the foreign exchange markets in Chile, the timing, volume and execution of the Company’s treasury functions to convert foreign currency into Chilean pesos, the value of revenues denominated in foreign currency relative to Chilean pesos, the relative balances of Chilean pesos and foreign currency owned by the Company at any time, and market perceptions of the severity of the impact of such events on the Company. If these and other factors, which may influence the value of the Company and its assets in either direction, have an aggregate negative effect on the value of the Company and its assets, a depreciation of the value of the Chilean peso would result in a decrease of the valuation of the assets underlying the ADS in U.S. dollar terms, thereby resulting in a decrease in the value of the ADS. Because the Company’s export sales are primarily denominated in foreign currencies, changes in these foreign currencies to the Chilean peso may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Over 80.5% of the Company’s revenues are related to foreign sales that are denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, Sterling Pounds, Canadian dollars, and Argentine pesos (sales of the Argentine subsidiaries). Changes in these foreign currencies relative to the Chilean peso may result in operating losses for the Company and its subsidiaries. In order to mitigate the short-term effect of changes in currency exchange rates, the Company enters into, from time to time, forward exchange agreements. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” The Company holds assets in Argentine pesos through its Argentine subsidiaries, whose assets are subject to currency fluctuation. Since 2004, the Company has used financial instruments to minimize this effect. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company recognized Ch$117 million, Ch$131 million and Ch$114 million, respectively, of losses due to the conversion of the financial statements and the depreciation of the Argentine peso. 9 Because the Company purchases some of its supplies at prices set at U.S. dollars and sells the products in other currencies, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risks that may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Most notably, the Company purchases bottles, corks and Tetra Brik packages at prices set in U.S. dollars. To the extent that the Company sells products with these components for pesos or other non-U.S. currencies, changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to these other currencies may result in losses and adversely affect the Company’s financial and operating results. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” In addition, cash distributions with respect to shares of Common Stock underlying the ADS are paid by the Company to the Depositary on behalf of shareholders in Chilean pesos. The Depositary then converts the pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to pay the dividend on the ADS in U.S. dollars. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar between the declaration of dividends and the distribution of such dividends by the Depositary, the amount of U.S. dollars distributed to holders of ADS will decrease. See Item 3 — “Key Information — Exchange Rates.” Restrictions on Foreign Investment and Repatriation. The Law of the Central Bank of Chile authorizes the Central Bank of Chile to regulate foreign exchange transactions, including those relating to ADS facilities. At the time the ADS facility was issued, the Central Bank had issued certain regulations (the “Former Regulations”) imposing the obligation to obtain the previous authorization from the Central Bank of Chile and the execution of an agreement with such bank in order to proceed with an ADS facility. Due to the above, the ADS facility is subject to a contract between the Depositary, the Company and the Central Bank of Chile (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADS access to Chile’s Formal Exchange Market and permits the Depositary to remit dividends received from the Company to holders of ADS without restriction. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Exchange Controls” for a more detailed description of the new regulations and the Foreign Investment Contract. Under the Foreign Investment Contract, transferees of shares withdrawn from the ADS facility will not be entitled to access Chile’s Formal Exchange Market unless the withdrawn shares are redeposited with the Depositary. Cash and property dividends paid by the Company with respect to ADS held by a non-Chilean resident holder are subject to a 35% Chilean withholding tax, which is withheld by the Company. However, stock dividends are deemed a non-taxable event pursuant to Chilean Income Tax Law, and, thus, are not subject to Chilean taxation. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Taxation.” The Foreign Investment Contract is currently in force and will continue to govern the ADS facility until all parties agree to terminate it. If the Foreign Investment Contract is terminated, the ADS facility would then become subject to the New Regulations (as defined below). Under Chilean legislation, a Foreign Investment Contract may not be altered or affected adversely by actions of the Central Bank of Chile. The Central Bank of Chile relaxed foreign exchange restrictions in year 2002, allowing entities and individuals to purchase, sell, keep and remit abroad foreign currency without restrictions, although the Central Bank of Chile still requires reports of such transactions to be filed with it. The Central Bank of Chile adopted a new Foreign Exchange Regulations Compendium (the “New Regulations”) published in the Official Gazette on January 23, 2002, and effective as of March 1, 2002. The New Regulations impose only three levels of restrictions or obligations on foreign exchange transactions in Chile: (i) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency must be conducted through the Formal Exchange Market (i.e., a commercial bank) and reported to the Central Bank of Chile (e.g., investments, loans, deposits and certain other transactions in excess of US$10,000); (ii) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency to be remitted abroad must be conducted through the Formal Exchange Market without any reporting obligation (e.g., all license and royalty payments to be remitted abroad); and (iii) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency must only be reported to the Central Bank of Chile (e.g., payments regarding import and export transactions, etc.). Because the Law of the Central Bank of Chile authorizes the Central Bank of Chile to regulate foreign exchange transactions, including those relating to ADS facilities, it may re-establish more restrictive regulations on 10 foreign exchange affecting ADS holders of the Company at any time. Thus, in the event that the Foreign Investment Contract were terminated, an amendment to the New Regulations could, among other things, restrict the ability of ADS holders to dispose of the underlying shares of Common Stock of the ADS or repatriate proceeds of the Common Stock. The duration or impact of any such restrictions would be difficult to assess. Differences in Corporate Disclosure and Accounting-Taxation Standards. The principal objective of Chile’s securities laws governing publicly traded companies, such as the Company, is to promote disclosure of all material corporate information to investors. In addition, Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation. However, the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets, and Chilean disclosure requirements differ from those in the United States. These differences may result in fewer protections for holders of ADS than would exist if United States securities laws governed the company’s domestic securities transactions. There are also important differences between Chilean and U.S. accounting principles and reporting standards. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings may differ from those reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. Dividends can be paid only from the Company’s income determined in accordance with Chilean GAAP. Differences in Shareholders’ Rights. The corporate affairs of the Company are governed by Chilean law and the By-Laws. The By-Laws perform functions similar to those performed by both the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of a corporation incorporated in the United States. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Estatutos (By-Laws).” The principles of law applicable to the Company and its shareholders, however, differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in the United States. In addition, the shareholders of the Company may have fewer or less well-defined rights protecting their interests under Chilean law than they would have as shareholders of a corporation governed by the laws of a U.S. jurisdiction. Inflation. Although inflation in Chile has moderated in recent years, Chile has historically experienced high levels of inflation. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The annual rates of inflation for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were 7.4%, 2.1% and 3.6%, respectively. The Company believes that moderate inflation will not materially affect its business in Chile. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that inflation in Chile will not increase significantly from its current levels and that the operating results of the Company or the value of the ADS will not be affected adversely by a continuation of or an increase in the level of inflation. 