Item 1A Risk Factors In addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and thus should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and future prospects. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business If we do not timely receive and maintain regulatory approvals for our products or product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our products, which would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and materially harm our business and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the United States. Four of our products, Xibrom, Istalol, Bepreve and Vitrase, have received regulatory approval from the FDA. We currently have filed for approval for XiDay, our once-daily formulation of bromfenac, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xibrom. The regulatory approval process is extensive, time-consuming and costly, and the FDA may not approve additional product candidates, or the timing of any such approval may not be appropriate for our product launch schedule and other business priorities, which are subject to change. FDA approval of our products can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: • FDA officials may not find a product candidate safe or effective to merit an approval; • FDA officials may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval, or they may require additional studies that would make it commercially unattractive to continue pursuit of approval; • the FDA might not approve the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers or raw material suppliers or our manufacturing processes or facilities; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; and • the FDA may approve a product candidate for indications with labeling claims that are narrow or that place our product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit our sales and marketing activities or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. If the FDA does not approve our product candidates in a timely fashion with suitable labeling claims, or we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in clinical testing and the regulatory approval process, it may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could harm our business and financial condition. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products required to obtain approval is also a long, expensive and uncertain process. Even if initial results of preclinical studies or clinical trial results are positive, we may obtain different results in later stages of drug development, including failure to show desired safety and efficacy. The clinical trials of any of our product candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the product. If we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in clinical testing, it may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of any of our product acquisition and licensing activities are subject to uncertainty and any completed acquisitions or licenses may reduce our earnings, be difficult to integrate, not perform as expected or require us to obtain additional financing. We regularly evaluate selective acquisitions and look to continue to enhance our product line by acquiring rights to additional products and compounds. Such acquisitions may be carried out through the purchase of assets, joint ventures and licenses or by acquiring other companies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or in-licensing arrangements that meet our target criteria on satisfactory terms, if at all. Successfully integrating a product acquisition or in-licensing arrangement can be a lengthy and complex process. The diversion of our management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions or arrangements could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. In addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater resources than ours, may compete with us for the acquisition of product or in-licensing candidates and approved products, resulting in the possibility that we devote resources to potential acquisitions or arrangements that are never completed. If we do engage in any such acquisition or arrangement, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or arrangement in light of those costs. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions or arrangements we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, our product acquisition and licensing activities may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in increased debt obligations or dilution of ownership to our existing stockholders, as applicable. Therefore, we may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. 12 Table of Contents If generic manufacturers obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, or the FDCA, the FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic version of a branded drug, and under what is referred to as a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for a modified version of an existing branded drug, without the ANDA applicant undertaking the clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product has the same active ingredient(s) and is bioequivalent to the branded product, in addition to any data necessary to establish that any difference in strength, dosage form, inactive ingredients, or delivery mechanism does not result in different safety and efficacy profiles, as compared to the branded drug. The FDCA requires an applicant for a drug that relies, at least in part, on the existing approval of one of our branded drugs, to notify us of their application and potential infringement of our patent rights. Upon receipt of this notice, we have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the company seeking approval of a product covered by one of our patents. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the FDCA provides a 30-month stay on the FDA’s approval of the competitor’s application. Such litigation is often time-consuming and quite costly and may result in generic competition if such patent(s) are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patent(s). If the litigation is resolved in favor of the applicant or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month stay period, the stay is lifted and the FDA may thereafter approve the application based on the standards for approval of ANDAs and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs. In January 2009, the patent on Xibrom expired, and we lost regulatory exclusivity for Xibrom. Because of the patent expiration, competitors became eligible to receive approval for ANDAs for ophthalmic formulations of bromfenac with indications identical to Xibrom. During the second quarter of 2008, we submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA refrain from approving any applications that contain bromfenac manufactured outside the United States until the FDA conducts full inspections and determines that manufacturers are in compliance with applicable regulations. The FDA denied such Citizen Petition in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the second quarter of 2008, we submitted a second Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA refrain from approving any application for generic bromfenac ophthalmic formulations unless specific standards are satisfied, including but not limited to, corneal safety standards. On December 15, 2008, the FDA notified us that it had not yet reached a decision on the second Citizen Petition and that further review and analysis was required. The FDA published a guidance document in the Federal Register in January 2009 outlining its interpretation of responding to Citizens Petitions as required under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act that was passed in September 2007. In the guidance document, the FDA noted that it would not be required to respond to Citizens Petitions within the 180-day period from when the petition was filed in the event that an ANDA had not been filed as of the petition filing date. Because of this guideline, we have concluded that no ANDA was on file with the FDA for Xibrom as of June 23, 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we submitted a third Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA refrain from approving any applications for ophthalmic pharmaceutical products that do not contain standards for endotoxin levels and water for injection. On June 2, 2009, the FDA denied our petition. On June 30, 2009, we filed a Petition for Reconsideration of the denial of our Petition. On December 28, 2009, we received a letter from FDA informing us that the FDA has not reached a determination on our Petition for Reconsideration. We cannot predict whether the FDA will grant or deny our two pending Citizen Petitions or when it may take action with respect to such Citizen Petitions. In July 2009, a DMF was filed for bromfenac. Based upon publicly available information on the average FDA review times for ANDAs, we do not anticipate a generic form of bromfenac to gain approval by a competitor until 2011, or later. The filing of any ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDAs with respect to Xibrom, or any of our other branded drugs, could have an adverse impact on our net revenues and results of operations. In 2009, Xibrom accounted for approximately 73% of our net revenues and 77% of our gross profit. Moreover, if the patents covering our branded drugs (other than Xibrom) were not upheld in litigation or if a competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting competition would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy of our products for their prescribed treatments; • the availability of satisfactory levels, or at all, of third party reimbursement for our products and related treatments; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. 13 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to market and promote our products is restricted to the indications and labeling claims approved by the FDA. If the approved labeling is restrictive, our sales and marketing efforts and market acceptance and the commercial potential of our products may be negatively affected. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Rapid growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. To manage our anticipated growth successfully, we must attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. We are dependent on our personnel and third parties to effectively manufacture, market, sell and distribute our products. We will also continue to depend on our personnel and third parties to successfully develop and acquire new products. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully manage these relationships and monitor for quality assurance. If we do not grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or if we do not develop and expand a successful commercial infrastructure, our business and financial results will be materially harmed. We have a history of net losses and negative cash flow, and we may need to raise additional working capital. We have never been profitable and we might never become profitable. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $397.3 million (including a non-cash valuation warrant adjustment of $52.1 million), including a net loss of approximately $57.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $53.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $29.1 million. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with borrowings available under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, or Revolving Credit Facility, and other borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to finance anticipated capital and operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. If we are unable to generate sufficient product net revenues, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future through collaborative agreements or public or private equity or debt financings. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our 2008 facility agreement with certain institutional investors, which we refer to as the Facility Agreement, and our Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictions on our ability to incur certain indebtedness without the prior consent of our lenders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when required such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions may have material adverse consequences on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, increased government intervention, or other changes, may adversely affect our general business strategy. If the current equity and credit markets further deteriorate, or do not continue to improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a radical economic downturn, a double-dip recession, or an increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional technology. These economic conditions not only limit our access to capital, but also make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk that one or more of our current suppliers may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals. 14 Table of Contents If we are required to immediately repay our outstanding borrowings, our financial position could be negatively impacted. Outstanding amounts under our Revolving Credit Facility with Silicon Valley Bank bear interest at variable rates, which may expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase and our income and cash flows would decrease. The loan and security agreement related to the Revolving Credit Facility also contains certain covenants based on our financial performance. If we violate any of these financial performance covenants, or are otherwise in default, our lender has the option to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable, which could also cause a default under our Facility Agreement, thereby allowing the lenders under our Facility Agreement to accelerate the payment of the amounts outstanding thereunder. In that event, we may not have sufficient resources to pay the outstanding amounts and would need to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. If actual future payments or credits for allowances, discounts, product returns, rebates, chargebacks and other discounts, such as wholesaler fees, exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted. We recognize revenues from product sales when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, when title has passed, the price is fixed or determinable, and we are reasonably assured of collecting the resulting receivable. We recognize product revenues net of estimated allowances for discounts, product returns, rebates, chargebacks and other discounts, such as wholesaler fees. If actual future payments for allowances for discounts, product returns, wholesaler fees, rebates and chargebacks exceed the estimates we made at the time of sale, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. In general, we are obligated to accept from our customers the return of pharmaceutical products that have reached their expiration date. We authorize returns for damaged products and, on a limited basis, exchanges for expiring and expired products in accordance with our return goods policy and procedures, and have established reserves for such amounts at the time of sale. We typically refund the agreed portion of the sales price by the issuance of a credit, rather than cash refund or exchanges for inventory, and the returned product is destroyed. With the launch of each of our products, we recorded a sales return allowance, which was larger for stocking orders than subsequent re-orders. To date, actual product returns have not exceeded our estimated allowances for returns. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable as of the date when made, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and negatively impacted if actual returns exceed our estimated allowances for returns. Customers typically process their claim for allowances such as early pay discounts promptly, usually within the established payment terms. We monitor actual credit memos issued to our customers and compare such actual amounts to the estimated provisions, in the aggregate, for each allowance category to assess the reasonableness of the various reserves at each balance sheet date. Differences between our estimated allowances and actual credits issued have not been significant, and are accounted for in the current period as a change in estimate in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and negatively impacted if actual credits issued exceed our estimated allowances for such credits. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • the level of our net revenues, expenses and gross margins; • the volatility of our stock price and its impact on the valuation of our warrants and other financial instruments; • the timing of our regulatory submissions or approvals, or the failure to receive regulatory approvals; • the initiation and progress of our clinical trials and other product development activities; • the introduction of competitive products, including potential generic products, and announcements from competitors regarding actual or potential products under development or new commercial products, and the impact of competitive products and pricing; • the level of orders within a given quarter and preceding quarters; • the service fees charged and the levels of inventory for our products maintained by our customers, including wholesalers; • the timing of our product shipments and our customer’s receipt of such shipments within a given quarter; 15 Table of Contents • the timing of introducing new products; • the changes in our pricing policies or in the pricing policies of our competitors or suppliers; and • our product mix and dependence on a small number of products for most of our net revenues. We expect to experience seasonality with respect to sales of our ocular allergy products, specifically Bepreve. We expect larger sales in the spring through late summer and fewer sales in the late fall and winter. In addition, although our ophthalmic pharmaceutical business is not materially affected by seasonal factors, we have noticed a historical trend with respect to sales. Specifically, our sales have tended to be lower during the first calendar quarter than the preceding fourth quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, should not be construed as reliable indicators of our future performance. In any quarterly period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. Our partners may terminate, or fail to perform their duties under our agreements, in which case our ability to commercialize our products may be significantly impaired. We have entered into licensing agreements with Senju relating to Istalol, Xibrom, Bepreve, ecabet sodium, iganidipine, and certain prostaglandin compounds, including latanoprost. With respect to Xibrom, Bepreve, ecabet sodium and iganidipine, certain patent and other intellectual property rights we have received from Senju have been licensed to Senju from third parties. As a result, Senju’s license of such rights to us is subject to Senju maintaining and performing its obligations under these third party license agreements. We have also entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, from whom we obtained the North American rights to nasal (including intranasal) dosage forms of bepotastine. Certain intellectual property rights we received from Mitsubishi Tanabe have been licensed to Mitsubishi Tanabe from a third party, and thus Mitsubishi Tanabe’s license of such rights to us is subject to Mitsubishi Tanabe maintaining and performing its obligations under such third party license agreement. Any termination of our agreements by our partners could delay or stop the development and/or commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, any failure by Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe to perform their respective obligations under their license agreements with third parties, or any adverse modification or termination of these third party license agreements, could significantly impair our ability to continue or stop our development and/or commercialization of any product candidates or products for which Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe has licensed us rights subject to these third party agreements. Our agreements with Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe generally contain reciprocal terms providing that neither we nor they may develop products that directly compete in the same form with the products involved in the agreement. Nonetheless, our partners may develop competing products in different forms or products that compete indirectly with our products. If we are unable to obtain materials from our sole source suppliers in a timely manner or our sole source suppliers do not meet their commitments, our product development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates could be delayed or stopped. We utilize third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture and supply of our products and for their active and other ingredients. These third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other agencies, and we do not have control over their compliance with these regulations. The disqualification of these manufacturers and suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if such alternative suppliers are available, which they may not be) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring approved products to market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some materials used in our products are currently obtained from a single source. We have a supply agreement with Senju for bepotastine besilate, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Bepreve. Currently, Senju is our sole source for bepotastine besilate. The active ingredient for Xibrom is also supplied to us under an exclusive agreement from a sole supplier. We also have supply agreements with Bausch & Lomb to manufacture commercial quantities of Istalol, Xibrom and Bepreve, and, currently, Bausch & Lomb is our sole source supplier for such products. Hyaluronidase, our active ingredient in Vitrase, was manufactured by Biozyme. Our supply agreement with Biozyme ended in August 2007. We are developing and are awaiting qualification from the FDA for an onsite hyaluronidase manufacturing facility. We anticipate receiving qualification of the manufacturing facility by the FDA during the first half of 2010. Our success in validating the manufacturing site for production of ovine hyaluronidase cannot be assured. We have a supply agreement with Alliance Medical Products, Inc. to manufacture commercial quantities of Vitrase 200 USP units/mL in sterile solution. Currently, Alliance Medical Products is our sole source supplier for Vitrase. 16 Table of Contents We have not established and may not be able to establish arrangements with additional suppliers for certain of these ingredients or products. Difficulties in our relationships with our suppliers or delays or interruptions in such suppliers’ supply of our requirements could limit or stop our ability to provide sufficient quantities of our product candidates on a timely basis for clinical trials and, for our approved products, could limit or stop commercial sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our dependence upon key personnel to operate our business puts us at risk of a loss of expertise if key personnel were to leave us. We depend upon the experience and expertise of our executive management team. The competition for executives, as well as for skilled product development, marketing and sales, and technical personnel, in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit the personnel we need. If we are not able to attract and retain existing and additional highly qualified management, sales, clinical and technical personnel, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Risks Related to Our Industry Compliance with extensive government regulations or other third parties to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay, cessation or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and foreign and state government agencies. The FDCA, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of our or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers’ and manufacturers’ processes, are in compliance with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulations. We are dependent on maintaining FDA and other governmental approvals in order to manufacture, market, sell and ship our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will take post-approval action limiting, modifying or revoking our ability to manufacture or sell our products, or that the cost of maintaining such approvals will adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of the FDA’s policies and procedures are under review by new leadership and it is uncertain whether any changes arising from such review could adversely affect our products and business. We currently have certain raw materials manufactured in foreign countries and the manufacturers of those materials are subject to regulation and inspection by both the FDA and local governmental authorities. We may also elect in the future to market certain of our products manufactured, in foreign countries which would require further approvals by local governmental authorities. To the extent that our products are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal programs, our marketing and sales activities will be subject to federal regulation. Federal agencies in recent years have initiated investigations against, and entered into multi-million dollar settlements with, a number of pharmaceutical companies alleging violations of fraud and abuse provisions. We will need to ensure that our sales force is properly trained to comply with these laws. Even with such training, there is a risk that some of our marketing practices could come under scrutiny, or that we will not be able to institute or continue certain marketing practices. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to these federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceutical products, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. 17 Table of Contents In April 2008, we received subpoenas from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of New York requesting the production of documents regarding promotional, educational and other activities relating to Xibrom. We are cooperating with the government to provide the requested documents. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of fines or penalties that might result from an adverse outcome. From April 2008 through December 31, 2009, we incurred approximately $2.8 million in legal fees responding to the document requests and expect to incur significant expenses in the future. If, as a result of its review of the requested documents and other evidence, the government chooses to engage in civil litigation or initiate a criminal prosecution against us, we could have to expend significant resources to defend such action and, if not successful, incur or pay substantial fines or penalties, including but not limited to monetary settlements, disqualification from government reimbursement programs, or entering into a corporate integrity agreement with the government, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our interactions with physicians and other healthcare professionals are subject to both federal and state law and regulation designed to prohibit companies from wrongfully inducing physicians and others from prescribing and using our products. We have adopted a comprehensive compliance program to regulate our personnel’s interactions with physicians and others, to attempt to comply with these regulations. However, because of the breadth of these laws and regulations and subjective nature of their fundamental bases, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to initiate or defend against legal proceedings related to intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense, delay and/or cessation of our development and commercialization of our products. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. For example: • others may claim that our patents and pending patent applications cover products and/or technology that we did not invent first; • others may claim that we were not the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; and • any of our issued patents, or pending patent applications that result in issued patents, will be held invalid or not infringed in the event the patents are asserted against others. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 14 issued U.S. patents, 6 pending U.S. patent applications, 37 issued foreign patents, and 9 pending foreign patent applications. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we licensed 6 issued U.S. patents, 3 pending U.S. patent applications, 1 issued foreign patent, and 1 pending foreign patent application. Our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of such applications, may not provide us a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may face third-party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of our inventions. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. We license patent rights from Senju related to Istalol, Xibrom, Bepreve, ecabet sodium, iganidipine and certain prostaglandin compounds, including latanoprost. We also license patent rights from Mitsubishi Tanabe for bepotastine in nasal dosage form. Some of these license agreements do not permit us to control the prosecution, maintenance, protection and/or defense of such patents. If the licensor chooses not to protect and enforce its own patent rights, we may not be able to take actions to secure our related product marketing rights. In addition, if such patent licenses are terminated before the expiration of the licensed patents, we may no longer be able to continue to manufacture and sell these products covered by the patents. In this regard, certain patent rights licensed from Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe were licensed by them from third parties. As a result, any failure by Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe to perform their respective obligations under their license agreements with third parties, or any adverse modification or termination of these third party license agreements, could significantly impair our ability to continue or stop our development and/or commercialization of any product candidates or products for which Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe have licensed us rights subject to these third party license agreements. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. 18 Table of Contents We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. Some of our trademarks, including Xibrom, are owned by, or assignable to, our licensors, and upon expiration or termination of the applicable license agreements, we may no longer be able to use these trademarks. In addition to protecting our own intellectual property rights, we may be required to defend against third parties who assert patent, trademark or copyright infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on what they believe are their own intellectual property rights. We may be required to pay substantial damages, including but not limited to treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may be stopped from developing, manufacturing or selling our products until we obtain a license from the owner of the relevant technology or other intellectual property rights. If such a license is available at all, it may require us to pay substantial royalties or other fees. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to other parties and such patents which contain claims relating to our technology and products may exist, may have been filed, or could be issued. If such patents do exist, the owners may bring claims against us for infringement, which might have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If third-party reimbursement is not available at satisfactory levels or at all, our products may not be accepted in the market. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products, and for our competitors’ products, and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products to contain costs. Any of our products that have been, or in the future are, approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost-containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our net revenues and financial condition. Similar regulatory and legislative issues are present in most other countries outside of the United States. The U.S. Department of Defense’s, or DoD’s, TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program pursuant to section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008, became effective on May 26, 2009. This regulation would require manufacturers to pay rebates to DoD on products distributed to TRICARE beneficiaries through retail pharmacies retroactive to January 28, 2008. The regulation requires that pharmaceuticals paid for by the DoD through the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program be subject to the Federal Ceiling Price program, which would require manufacturers to provide DoD with a refund on pharmaceuticals utilized through the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program. We have requested a waiver of the retroactive rebate for TRICARE Retail Pharmacy utilization for the period from January 28, 2008 to May 26, 2009. In addition, the regulation is currently the subject of litigation, and it is our belief that the retroactive application of the regulation is contrary to established case law. We have determined that payment of the retroactive rebate created by the regulation is neither reasonably estimable nor probable as of December 31, 2009. However, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted if we are required to pay the retroactive rebate created by this regulation. It is uncertain how any other policies and new healthcare legislation supported by the current presidential administration may impact the government and other third party payors’ reimbursement policies. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of healthcare products. Third-party payors may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for any of our approved products or products we develop or acquire in the future, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base could adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers could continue, likely resulting in increased service fees charged to drug companies and increase other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our three largest customers, AmeriSource Bergen Corp., McKesson HBOC and Cardinal Health, Inc., accounted for 17%, 40% and 35%, respectively, of our net revenues. In addition, none of our customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us which would enable them to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so. The loss of any of our customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to the products we are developing. We have numerous competitors in the United States and abroad, including major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that may be developing competing products. Our competitors include, among others, Allergan, Inc., Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bausch & Lomb, Incorporated, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than our current or future products or product candidates or that could render our technologies, products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. Many of our competitors also have more resources committed to, and expertise in, effectively commercializing, marketing, and promoting products approved by the FDA, including communicating the efficacy, safety and value of the products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare. We are exposed to product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. As a commercial company, we may be subject to various product liability claims. In addition, we may in the future recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons. We may experience material losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. These events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling that could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event. We currently maintain sold products and clinical trial liability insurance with per occurrence and aggregate coverage limits of $10 million. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with clinical trials or the sale of our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since 2004, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $15.05 per share to a low of $0.36 per share. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility. Among others, the following factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fall: • the scope, outcome and timeliness of any governmental, court or other regulatory action that may involve us, including, without limitation, the scope, outcome or timeliness of any product approval, inspection or other action of the FDA; 20 Table of Contents • market acceptance and demand for our approved products; • the availability to us, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, of third-party sourced products and materials; • timely and successful implementation of our strategic initiatives, including the expansion of our commercial infrastructure to support the marketing, sale, and distribution of our approved products; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including the ability of third parties to assert patents or other intellectual property rights against us which, among other things, could cause a delay or disruption in the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of our products; • competitors’ publicity regarding actual or potential products under development or new commercial products, and the impact of competitive products, including potential generic products, and pricing; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • future sales of debt or equity securities by us; • sales of our securities by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; • availability of capital from hedge funds, mutual funds and others; • comments made by securities analysts; and • economic and other external factors, including disasters and other crises. We participate in a highly dynamic industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock irrespective of company performance. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the healthcare and technology industry segments or conditions in the financial markets generally. If our stock does not continue to be traded on an established exchange, an active trading market may not develop and the trading price of our stock may decline. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy minimum financial and continued listing requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. During the last twelve months, our closing stock price has ranged from $0.73 to $6.00 per share. If the closing bid price of our common stock is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we could receive notice from NASDAQ stating that the minimum bid price for our common stock is below continuing listing standards. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements by moving our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market, or we may pursue other strategic alternatives to meet the continuing listing standards. For example, if appropriate, we may request approval by our stockholders to implement a reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the NYSE Alternext U.S., the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink OTC Markets. In such an event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, if we are not listed on a national securities exchange, it would constitute an event of default under our Facility Agreement, which would also trigger a default under our Revolving Credit Facility, unless we renegotiate our Facility Agreement. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009 was approximately 185,000 shares and the average daily number of transactions was approximately 663 for the same period. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. 21 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for investors to recover the full value of their investment in our shares. We have approximately 33.3 million shares of common stock outstanding, most of which are freely tradable. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, an aggregate of 7.1 million shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, 15.0 million shares of common stock are issuable upon the exercise of certain warrants issued under the Facility Agreement and 6.9 million shares remain available for issuance under our equity incentive plans. The market price of our common stock could decrease due to sales of a large number of shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, our officers, directors and principal stockholders, each holding more than 5% of our common stock, beneficially own approximately 90% of our common stock in the aggregate. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan, provisions in our charter documents, and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, and could entrench management. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, thereby entrenching current management and possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the stockholder rights plan may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 22 Table of Contents We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by our Facility Agreement, which contains restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender’s prior approval. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to investors because a return on their investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. On December 23, 2009, we received a comment letter from the staff of the SEC’s Department of Corporate Finance related to a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2008, and Definitive Proxy Statement filed October 30, 2009. The SEC requested additional information and provided comments related to (i) certain of our disclosures pertaining to our patents and proprietary rights, (ii) our revenue recognition policies, (iii) our accounting treatment of warrants and derivatives, and (iv) certain of our disclosures pertaining to executive compensation. We responded to the SEC on January 29, 2010 and believe we have addressed the SEC’s comments relating to our patents and proprietary rights, our revenue recognition policies, and our accounting treatment of warrants and derivatives, in this filing. In addition, we will address the SEC’s comments relating to our executive compensation disclosures in an amendment to this Form 10-K to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. However, as of the filing date of this Form 10-K, the SEC’s review of our filings is not complete, and they may have further comments. 