Item 1A Risk Factors In addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and thus should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and future prospects. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business If we do not timely receive and maintain regulatory approvals for our products or product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our products, which would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and materially harm our business and financial condition. Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the U.S. Five of our products, BROMDAY, BEPREVE, ISTALOL, VITRASE and XIBROM have received regulatory approval from the FDA. The regulatory approval process is extensive, time-consuming and costly, and the FDA may not approve additional product candidates, or the timing of any such approval may not be appropriate for our product launch schedule and other business priorities, which are subject to change. FDA approval of our products and product candidates can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: • the FDA may not find a product candidate safe or effective to merit an approval; • the FDA may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval, or they may require additional studies that would make it commercially unattractive to continue pursuit of approval; • the FDA may not approve the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers or raw material suppliers or our manufacturing processes or facilities; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; and • the FDA may approve a product candidate for indications with labeling claims that are narrow or that place our product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit our sales and marketing activities or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. If the FDA does not approve our product candidates in a timely fashion with suitable labeling claims, or we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in clinical testing and the regulatory approval process, it may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to develop product candidates into successful commercial products, which would impair our ability to grow and could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents The process of developing product candidates involves a high degree of risk and takes several years. Product candidates may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including but not limited to the following: • clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated, or to have harmful side effects or an unforeseen result; • our inability to enroll patients in clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • our inability to obtain authorization from the FDA or other regulatory authority to initiate clinical trials within the expected timeframes; • product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to the market; • manufacturing costs and delays and manufacturing problems in general, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or commercial supplies, or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; and • the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized or to obtain exclusivity. Success in the preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Currently, there is substantial congressional and administration review of the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for our product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and will have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include: • changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the U.S., in which we may be seeking approval for our product candidates; • the cost and timing of manufacturing clinical or commercial supplies of product candidates, including the cost and timing of the implementation of any necessary corrective actions; • regulatory approval of trade names for our product candidates and the timing thereof; • our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; • the number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators; • the number of products we may have in clinical development; • in-licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and • future levels of our revenue. Our product development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, significant milestone payments, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if we are unable to develop our product candidates into viable commercial products, we will be reliant solely on sales of our currently approved products for our revenues, potentially limiting our growth opportunities. If generic manufacturers obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In January 2009, the patent on XIBROM expired, and we lost regulatory exclusivity for XIBROM. Because of the patent expiration, competitors became eligible to receive approval for ANDAs for ophthalmic formulations of bromfenac with indications identical to XIBROM. Generic manufacturers pursuing ANDA approval are not required to conduct costly and time-consuming clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of their products; rather, they are permitted to rely on the innovator’s data regarding safety and efficacy. Thus, generic manufacturers can sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by innovative pharmaceutical companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the product. Since the XIBROM patent expiration in January 2009, three DMFs have been filed for bromfenac. In addition, we believe a bromfenac ANDA was filed in May 2010. Based upon publicly available information that show a two year or longer average FDA review time for ANDAs, we do not anticipate that a generic form of bromfenac will receive FDA approval by a competitor until approximately 2012. The introduction of a generic version of XIBROM could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents In addition, on October 16, 2010, the FDA approved BROMDAY for the treatment of postoperative inflammation and reduction of ocular pain in patients who have undergone cataract extractions. We were granted three years of marketing exclusivity under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. We launched BROMDAY in November 2010 and we focused our sales and marketing efforts on encouraging physicians to transition from prescribing twice-daily XIBROM to prescribing once-daily BROMDAY. We intend to stop shipments of XIBROM effective February 28, 2011. There can be no assurances that we will be able to generate revenues from BROMDAY similar to the levels achieved from sales of XIBROM. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy of our products for their prescribed treatments; • the availability of satisfactory levels, or at all, of third party reimbursement for our products and related treatments; • the restrictiveness of FDA approved labeling of our products; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, we have historically focused our sales and marketing efforts on specialty physicians. However, in the future, in order to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, we may choose to modify our focus to include primary care physicians, which will require us to implement changes to our commercialization strategy. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Rapid growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. To manage our anticipated growth successfully, we must attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. We are dependent on our personnel and third parties to effectively manufacture, market, sell and distribute our products. We will also continue to depend on our personnel and third parties to successfully develop and acquire new products. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully manage these relationships and monitor for quality assurance. If we do not grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or if we do not develop and expand a successful commercial infrastructure, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially harmed. We may need to raise additional working capital in the future. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with borrowings available under our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, or Revolving Credit Facility, and other borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to finance anticipated capital, financing and operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. If we are unable to generate sufficient product net revenues, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future through collaborative agreements or public or private equity or debt financings. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Facility Agreement with certain institutional investors, which we refer to as the Facility Agreement, and our Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictions on our ability to incur certain indebtedness without the prior consent of our lenders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when required, such failure could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Adverse economic conditions may have material adverse consequences on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, increased government intervention, or other changes, may adversely affect our general business strategy. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or do not continue to improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a radical economic downturn, a double-dip recession, or an increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans or plans to acquire additional products. These economic conditions not only limit our access to capital, but also make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the recent economic crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to immediately repay our outstanding borrowings, our financial position could be negatively impacted. Outstanding amounts under our Revolving Credit Facility with Silicon Valley Bank bear interest at variable rates, which may expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase and our income and cash flows would decrease. The loan and security agreement related to the Revolving Credit Facility also contains certain covenants based on our financial performance. If we violate any of these financial performance covenants, or are otherwise in default, our lender has the option to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable, which could also cause a default under our Facility Agreement, thereby allowing the lenders under our Facility Agreement to accelerate the payment of the amounts outstanding thereunder. In that event, we may not have sufficient resources to pay the outstanding amounts and would need to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Our partners may terminate, or fail to perform their duties under our agreements, in which case our ability to commercialize our products may be significantly impaired. We have entered into licensing agreements with Senju relating to BROMDAY and XIBROM, BEPREVE, ecabet sodium, iganidipine, and certain prostaglandin compounds, including latanoprost. With respect to BROMDAY and XIBROM, BEPREVE, ecabet sodium and iganidipine, certain patent and other intellectual property rights we have received from Senju have been licensed to Senju from third parties. As a result, Senju’s license of such rights to us is subject to Senju maintaining and performing its obligations under these third party license agreements. We have also entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe, from whom we obtained the North American rights to nasal (including intranasal) dosage forms of bepotastine. Certain intellectual property rights we received from Mitsubishi Tanabe have been licensed to Mitsubishi Tanabe from a third party, and thus Mitsubishi Tanabe’s license of such rights to us is subject to Mitsubishi Tanabe maintaining and performing its obligations under such third party license agreement. Any failure by Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe to perform their respective obligations under their license agreements with third parties, or any adverse modification or termination of these third party license agreements, could significantly impair our ability to continue or stop our development and/or commercialization of any product candidates or products for which Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe has licensed us rights subject to these third party agreements. Our agreements with Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe generally contain reciprocal terms providing that neither we nor they may develop products that directly compete in the same form with the products involved in the agreement. Nonetheless, our partners may develop competing products in different forms or products that compete indirectly with our products. Our supply of drug products will be dependent upon our limited manufacturing capacities and the production capabilities of third party manufacturers, contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, and other suppliers, and if such parties are not able to meet our demands, we may be limited in our ability to meet demand for our products, ensure regulatory compliance or maximize profit on the sale of our products. 15 Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing capacity for the raw material of one of our drug products and no internal manufacturing capacity for our drug products, and, therefore, we have entered into agreements with third-party manufacturers, CMOs and other suppliers for the manufacture and supply of our products and for their active and other ingredients. We received approval for our own on-site manufacturing facility by the FDA during 2010 and we have since then commenced manufacturing ovine highly purified hyaluronidase at the approved facility. Reliance on these manufacturing capabilities and those of such third-party manufacturers, CMOs and other suppliers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves. For the raw material that we manufacture, we are subject to compliance with the regulations promulgated by the FDA and other agencies, including but not limited to the FDA’s cGMP requirements. If we do not or cannot maintain control over compliance with these regulations, it could have a negative impact on our business. The disqualification of these manufacturers, CMOs and other suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if such alternative suppliers are available, which they may not be) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring our approved products to market, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have little or no control over the production processes of third-party manufacturers, CMOs or other suppliers. Accordingly, while we do not currently anticipate any shortages of supply, circumstances could arise in which we would not have adequate supplies to timely meet our requirements or market demand for a particular drug product could outstrip the ability of our supply source to timely manufacture and deliver the product, thereby causing us to lose sales. In addition, our ability to make a profit on the sale of our products depends on our ability to obtain price arrangements that ensure a supply of product at favorable prices. If we are unable to obtain materials from our sole source suppliers in a timely manner or our sole source suppliers do not meet their commitments, our product development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates could be delayed or stopped. Some materials used in our products are currently obtained from a single source. We have a supply agreement with Senju for bepotastine besilate, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient in BEPREVE. Currently, Senju is our sole source for bepotastine besilate. The active ingredient for BROMDAY and XIBROM is also supplied to us under an exclusive agreement from a sole source. We also have supply agreements with Bausch & Lomb to manufacture commercial quantities of BROMDAY, BEPREVE, ISTALOL and XIBROM. Currently, Bausch & Lomb is our sole source for such products. We have a supply agreement with Alliance Medical Products, Inc. to manufacture commercial quantities of VITRASE. Currently, Alliance Medical Products, Inc. is our sole source for VITRASE. We have not established and may not be able to establish arrangements with additional suppliers for certain of these ingredients or products. Difficulties in our relationships with our suppliers, or delays or interruptions in such suppliers’ supply of our requirements could limit or stop our ability to provide sufficient quantities of our product candidates on a timely basis for clinical trials and, for our approved products, could limit or stop commercial sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to make a profit on the sale of our products depends on our ability to obtain price arrangements that ensure a supply of product at favorable prices. If actual future payments or credits for allowances, discounts, product returns, rebates, chargebacks and other discounts, such as wholesaler fees, materially exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted. We recognize revenues from product sales when there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, when title has passed, the price is fixed or determinable, and we are reasonably assured of collecting the resulting receivable. We recognize product revenues net of estimated allowances for discounts, product returns, rebates, chargebacks and other discounts, such as wholesaler fees. If actual future payments for allowances for discounts, product returns, wholesaler fees, rebates and chargebacks materially exceed the estimates we made at the time of sale, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. In general, we are obligated to accept from our customers the return of pharmaceutical products that have reached their expiration date. We authorize returns for damaged products, expiring and expired products in accordance with our return goods policy and procedures, and have established reserves for such amounts at the time of sale. We typically refund the agreed portion of the sales price by the issuance of a credit, rather than cash refund or exchanges for inventory, and the returned product is destroyed. With the launch of each of our products, we recorded a sales return allowance, which was larger for stocking orders than subsequent re-orders. To date, actual product returns have not exceeded our estimated allowances for returns. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable as of the date when made, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and negatively impacted if actual returns materially exceed our estimated allowances for returns. 16 Table of Contents Customers typically process their claim for allowances such as early pay discounts promptly, usually within the established payment terms. We monitor actual credit memos issued to our customers and compare such actual amounts to the estimated provisions, in the aggregate, for each allowance category to assess the reasonableness of the various reserves at each balance sheet date. Differences between our estimated allowances and actual credits issued have not been significant, and are accounted for in the current period as a change in estimate in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and negatively impacted if actual credits issued exceed our estimated allowances for such credits. Our dependence upon key personnel to operate our business puts us at risk of a loss of expertise if key personnel were to leave us. We depend upon the experience and expertise of our executive management team. The competition for executives, as well as for skilled product development, marketing and sales, and technical personnel, in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit the personnel we need. If we are not able to attract and retain existing and additional highly qualified management, sales, clinical and technical personnel, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • the level of our net revenues, gross margin and expenses; • the volatility of our stock price and its impact on the valuation of our warrants and other financial instruments; • the timing of our regulatory submissions or approvals, or the failure to receive regulatory approvals; • the initiation and progress of our clinical trials and other product development activities; • the introduction of competitive products, including potential generic products, and announcements from competitors regarding actual or potential products under development or new commercial products, and the impact of competitive products and pricing; • the level of orders within a given quarter and preceding quarters; • the service fees charged and the levels of inventory for our products maintained by our customers, including wholesalers; • the timing of our product shipments and our customer’s receipt of such shipments within a given quarter; • the timing of introducing new products; • the changes in our pricing policies or in the pricing policies of our competitors or suppliers; and • our product mix and dependence on a small number of products for most of our net revenues. We experience seasonality with respect to sales of our ocular allergy product, BEPREVE. We expect larger sales in the spring through late summer and fewer sales in the late fall and winter. In addition, although our ophthalmic pharmaceutical business is not materially affected by seasonal factors, we have noticed a historical trend with respect to sales. Specifically, our sales have tended to be lowest during the first calendar quarter and the highest during the fourth calendar quarter. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, should not be construed as reliable indicators of our future performance. In any quarterly period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. Product acquisitions and licensing activities are subject to uncertainty and any completed acquisitions or licenses may not result in commercially successful products. We regularly evaluate and, as appropriate, may make selective acquisitions of technologies, products, and compounds that we believe are complementary and/or additive to our business. Such acquisitions may be carried out through the purchase of assets, joint ventures and licenses or by acquiring other companies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or in-licensing arrangements that meet our target criteria on satisfactory terms, if at all. Successfully integrating a product acquisition or in-licensing arrangement can be a lengthy and complex process. Issues that could delay or prevent integration of the acquired technologies, products, and compounds into our own include: • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; • conforming information technology and accounting systems; 17 Table of Contents • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • retaining key employees; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations; and • making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Actual costs and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. Furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources than ours, may compete with us for the acquisition of product or in-licensing candidates and approved products, resulting in the possibility that we devote resources to potential acquisitions or arrangements that are never completed. In addition, our product acquisition and licensing activities may require us to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in increased debt obligations or dilution of ownership to our existing stockholders, as applicable. Therefore, we may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our future collaborative arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretation and ownership of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our products. We may in the future enter into collaborative arrangements, some of which could be based on less definitive agreements, such as memoranda of understanding, material transfer agreements, options or feasibility agreements. We may not execute definitive agreements formalizing these arrangements. Collaborative relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations, especially when the applicable collaborative provisions have not been fully negotiated and documented. Such disputes can delay collaborative research, development or commercialization of potential products, and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of collaborative arrangements may also limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such collaborations. Additionally, the collaborators under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Moreover, negotiating collaborative arrangements often takes considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce the funding available to support key programs. We may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, which would harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future products. Other factors relating to collaborations that may adversely affect the commercial success of our products include: • any parallel development by a collaborative partner of competitive technologies or products; • arrangements with collaborative partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies; 18 Table of Contents • premature termination of a collaboration agreement; or • failure by a collaborative partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercial sales of products using our technology. Our collaborative arrangements might not restrict our collaborative partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Any future collaborative partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborative partners may also terminate their collaborative relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development and commercialization of our products. Risks Related to Our Industry Compliance with extensive government regulations or other third parties to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay, cessation or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA, and foreign and state government agencies. The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of our or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers’ and manufacturers’ processes, are in compliance with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulations. We are dependent on maintaining FDA and other governmental approvals in order to manufacture, market, sell and ship our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will take post-approval action limiting, modifying or revoking our ability to manufacture or sell our products, or that the cost of maintaining such approvals will adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of the FDA’s policies and procedures are under review by new leadership and it is uncertain whether any changes arising from such review could adversely affect our products and business. We currently have certain raw materials manufactured in foreign countries and the manufacturers of those materials are subject to regulation and inspection by both the FDA and local governmental authorities. We may also elect in the future to market certain of our products in foreign countries which would require further approvals by local governmental authorities. If our past or present operations are found to be in violations of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pharmaceutical marketing is subject to substantial regulation in the United States. All marketing activities associated with XIBROM, BROMDAY, BEPREVE, ISTALOL and VITRASE, as well as marketing activities related to any other products for which we obtain regulatory approval, will be subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that they conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under governmental healthcare programs. For example, the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits giving things of value to induce the prescribing or purchase of products that are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Under this law, the federal government in recent years has brought claims against drug manufacturers alleging that certain marketing activities caused false claims for prescription drugs to be submitted to federal programs. Many states have similar statutes or regulations, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in some states, regardless of the payor. If we, or our collaborative partners, fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of our products, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunction and exclusion of our products from reimbursement under governmental programs, as well as other regulatory actions against our product candidates, our collaborative partners or us. 19 Table of Contents In April 2008, we received subpoenas from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of New York requesting the production of documents regarding promotional, educational and other activities relating to XIBROM. We are cooperating with the government to provide the requested documents. At this time, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of fines or penalties that might result from an adverse outcome. From April 2008 through December 31, 2010, we have incurred approximately $3.8 million in legal fees responding to the document requests and expect to incur significant expenses in the future. If, as a result of its review of the requested documents and other evidence, the government chooses to engage in civil litigation or initiate a criminal prosecution against us, we would have to expend significant resources to defend such action and, if not successful, incur or pay substantial fines or penalties, including but not limited to monetary settlements, disqualification from government reimbursement programs, or entering into a corporate integrity agreement with the government, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have adopted a comprehensive compliance program to regulate our personnel’s interactions with physicians and others, to attempt to comply with these regulations. However, because of the breadth of these laws and regulations and subjective nature of their fundamental bases, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patent rights, our business could suffer. Our success with the products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for these products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and pending, however, we primarily rely on patent rights licensed from others. Our license agreements generally give us the right and/or the obligation to maintain and enforce the subject patents. We may not receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future. If our pending and future patent applications are not allowed or, if allowed and issued into patents, if such patents and the patents we have licensed are not upheld in a court of law, our ability to competitively exploit our drug products would be substantially harmed. Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially exploit these products may be diminished. As of December 31, 2010, we owned 14 issued U.S. patents, six pending U.S. patent applications, 37 issued foreign patents, and nine pending foreign patent applications. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we licensed six issued U.S. patents, three pending U.S. patent applications, one issued foreign patent, and one pending foreign patent application. Our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of such applications, may not provide us a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may face third-party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of our inventions. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. We license patent rights from Senju related to BROMDAY, BEPREVE, ecabet sodium, iganidipine and certain prostaglandin compounds, including latanoprost. We also license patent rights from Mitsubishi Tanabe for bepotastine in nasal dosage form. Some of these license agreements do not permit us to control the prosecution, maintenance, protection and/or defense of such patents. If the licensor chooses not to protect and enforce its own patent rights, we may not be able to take actions to secure our related product marketing rights. In addition, if such patent licenses are terminated before the expiration of the licensed patents, we may no longer be able to continue to manufacture and sell these products covered by the patents. In this regard, certain patent rights licensed from Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe were licensed by them from third parties. As a result, any failure by Senju or Mitsubishi Tanabe to perform their respective obligations under their license agreements with third parties, or any adverse modification or termination of these third party license agreements, could significantly impair our ability to continue or stop our development and/or commercialization of any product candidates or products for which Senju and Mitsubishi Tanabe have licensed us rights subject to these third party license agreements. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The laws of many countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. 20 Table of Contents Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all our products or product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions outside of those in which we have patent or intellectual property protection and we may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents, and we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed in our patent applications or in the patent applications we license from others. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • in certain jurisdictions, we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to participate in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative product candidates or duplicate any of our or our licensors’ product candidates; • our or our licensors’ pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our or our licensors’ issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • others may design around our or our licensors’ patent claims to produce competitive products that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents; • we may not develop or in-license additional patentable proprietary technologies related to our product candidates; or • the patents of others may prevent us from marketing one or more of our product candidates for one or more indications that may be valuable to our business strategy the timing of our product shipments and/or our customer’s receipt of such shipments within a given quarter. Moreover, an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our patented products and practicing our patented technology. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing related product candidates or could limit the length of the term of patent protection of our product candidates. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Moreover, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not successfully protect our trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information. It is possible that these agreements will be breached, or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is possible that trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information may still be leaked or disclosed to a third party. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. Some of our trademarks, including XIBROM, are owned by, or assignable to, our licensors, and upon expiration or termination of the applicable license agreements, we may no longer be able to use these trademarks. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our patents, our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects could suffer. 21 Table of Contents Intellectual property rights are complex and uncertain and therefore may subject us to infringement claims. The patent positions related to our products are inherently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. We believe that there is significant litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. A patent does not provide the patent holder with freedom to operate in a way that infringes the patent rights of others. We may be accused of patent infringement at any time. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents in the United States. Although we are not aware of any infringement by any of our products on the rights of any third party, there may be third party patents or other intellectual property rights, including trademarks and copyrights, relevant to our products of which we are not aware. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our licensors and collaborators, with products. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages and result in the loss of our use of the intellectual property that is critical to our business strategy. In the event that we or our partners are found to infringe any valid claim of a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of our products that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction such as an injunction; • expend significant resources to redesign our products so they do not infringe others’ patent rights, which may not be possible; • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Intellectual property litigation is increasingly common and increasingly expensive and may result in restrictions on our business and substantial costs, even if we prevail. Patent and other intellectual property litigation is becoming more common in the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent filings involving complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our licensed patents will be enforceable. Competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Litigation is sometimes necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patent rights, including those we have licensed from others, to protect trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of third parties. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to other parties and such patents which contain claims relating to our technology and products may exist, may have been filed, or could be issued. If such patents do exist, we may be infringing upon a third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, and litigation asserting such claims might be initiated in which we would not prevail, or we would not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. All such litigation, whether meritorious or not, as well as litigation initiated by us against third parties, is time-consuming and very expensive to defend or prosecute and to resolve and we cannot be certain that we will have the required resources to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our proprietary rights. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell our products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and prospects. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or in foreign countries that claim technology we also claim, we may have to participate in interference proceedings required by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention or opposition proceedings in foreign countries, both of which could result in substantial costs, even if we ultimately prevail. Results of interference and opposition proceedings are highly unpredictable and may result in us having to try to obtain licenses which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to continue to develop or market certain of our products. If we need but cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from marketing the affected product. 22 Table of Contents If third-party reimbursement is not available at satisfactory levels or at all, our products may not be accepted in the market. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products, and for our competitors’ products, and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products to contain costs. Any of our products that have been, or in the future are, approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost-containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our net revenues and financial condition. Similar regulatory and legislative issues are present in most other countries outside of the United States. The U.S. Department of Defense’s, or DoD’s, TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program pursuant to section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008, became effective on May 26, 2009. This regulation would require manufacturers to pay rebates to DoD on products distributed to TRICARE beneficiaries through retail pharmacies retroactive to January 28, 2008. The regulation requires that pharmaceutical products paid for by the DoD through the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program be subject to the Federal Ceiling Price program, which would require manufacturers to provide DoD with a refund on pharmaceutical products utilized through the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy program. We have requested a waiver of the retroactive rebate for TRICARE Retail Pharmacy utilization for the period from January 28, 2008 to May 26, 2009. In addition, the regulation is currently the subject of litigation, and it is our belief that the retroactive application of the regulation is contrary to established case law. We have determined that payment of the retroactive rebate created by the regulation is neither reasonably estimable nor probable as of December 31, 2010. However, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted if we are required to pay the retroactive rebate created by this regulation. It is uncertain how any other policies and new healthcare legislation supported by the current presidential administration may impact the government and other third party payors’ reimbursement policies. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of healthcare products. Third-party payors may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for any of our approved products or products we develop or acquire in the future, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base could adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers could continue, likely resulting in increased service fees charged to drug companies and other competitive pressures. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest customers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson HBOC and AmeriSource Bergen Corp. accounted for 40%, 36% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenues. In addition, we are not party to any long-term supply agreements with our customers which would enable them to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so. The loss of any of our customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to the products we are developing. 23 Table of Contents We have numerous competitors in the United States and abroad, including major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that may be developing competing products. Our competitors include, among others, Allergan, Inc., Alcon Laboratories, Inc/Novartis AG, Bausch & Lomb, Inc., Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer, Inc. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than our current or future products or product candidates or that could render our technologies, products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. Many of our competitors also have more resources committed to, and expertise in, effectively commercializing, marketing, and promoting products approved by the FDA, including communicating the efficacy, safety and value of the products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare. We are exposed to product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. As a commercial company, we may be subject to various product liability claims. In addition, we may in the future recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons. We may experience material losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. These events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling that could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event. We currently maintain sold products and clinical trial liability insurance with per occurrence and aggregate coverage limits of $15 million. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with clinical trials or the sale of our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry related to pricing or reimbursement may hurt our ability to sell our products profitably or at all. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and may continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals related to pricing and reimbursement that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both government and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which become effective in 2011, may negatively affect our operating expenses and results of operations in the future. For example, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs that we believe will impact our operating expenses and results of operations. In addition, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act’s provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), we will also be required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates, or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products and any approved product candidates or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies such as ours. The enactment and implementation of any future healthcare reform legislation or policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents It is possible that proposals will be adopted, or existing regulations that affect the coverage or pricing of pharmaceutical and other medical products may change, before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products that we are developing. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved pharmaceutical products. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since 2004, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $15.05 per share to a low of $0.36 per share. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility. Among others, the following factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fall: • the scope, outcome and timeliness of any governmental, court or other regulatory action that may involve us, including, without limitation, the scope, outcome or timeliness of any product approval, inspection or other action of the FDA; • market acceptance and demand for our approved products; • the availability to us, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, of third-party sourced products and materials; • timely and successful implementation of our strategic initiatives, including the expansion of our commercial infrastructure to support the marketing, sale, and distribution of our approved products; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including the ability of third parties to assert patents or other intellectual property rights against us which, among other things, could cause a delay or disruption in the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of our products; • the initiation and progress of our clinical trials and other product development activities; • competitors’ publicity regarding actual or potential products under development or new commercial products, and the impact of competitive products, including potential generic products, and pricing; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • future sales of debt or equity securities by us; • sales of our securities by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; • availability of capital from hedge funds, mutual funds and others; • comments made by securities analysts; and • economic and other external factors, including disasters and other crises. We participate in a highly dynamic industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock irrespective of company performance. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the healthcare and technology industry segments or conditions in the financial markets in general. Trading in our stock over the last twelve months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. Based on data obtained from NASDAQ, the average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately 160,172 shares and the average daily number of transactions was approximately 599 for the same period. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. 25 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for investors to recover the full value of their investment in our shares. We have approximately 33.6 million shares of common stock outstanding, most of which are freely tradable. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, an aggregate of 5.8 million shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, 15.0 million shares of common stock are issuable upon the exercise of certain warrants issued under the Facility Agreement and 5.5 million shares remain available for issuance under our equity incentive plans. The market price of our common stock could decrease due to sales of a large number of shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, our officers, directors and principal stockholders, including stockholders who own 5% or more of our common stock and common stock equivalents and some of those who are parties to our Facility Agreement, beneficially own approximately 58% of our common stock and common stock equivalents in the aggregate. As a result of the holdings, we may be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan, provisions in our charter documents, and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, and could entrench management. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, thereby entrenching current management and possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the stockholder rights plan may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by our Facility Agreement, which contains restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender’s prior approval. If we do not pay cash dividends, our stock may be less valuable to investors because a return on their investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None 