Item 1A: Risk Factors. In addition to other information included in this report, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and thus should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and future prospects. Risks Related to Our Business If we do not receive and maintain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our products, which would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and materially harm our business and financial condition. Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the United States. Three of our product candidates, Vitrase for use as a spreading agent, Istalol and Xibrom, have received regulatory approval from the FDA. The regulatory approval process is extensive, time-consuming and costly, and there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve additional NDAs for our product candidates, or that the timing of any such approval will be appropriate for our product launch schedule and other business priorities, which are subject to change. We filed and the FDA accepted an NDA for Vitrase for the treatment of vitreous hemorrhage. Although we have received an approvable letter from the FDA with respect to our NDA for Vitrase for the treatment of vitreous hemorrhage, the FDA has requested additional analysis of the existing data and an additional confirmatory clinical study based upon that analysis. There can be no assurances that the FDA will approve this NDA for Vitrase, even if we decide to and are successfully able to undertake the further analysis and clinical testing requested by the FDA. We are continuing our discussions with the FDA on this NDA and other potential uses of Vitrase, such as diabetic retinopathy. In February 2006, we announced positive results from our Phase III study of our combination product (tobramycin 0.3% / prednisolone acetate 1.0%) for the treatment of steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions where risk of bacterial infection exists. Based on our Phase III study results, we plan to submit to the FDA an NDA for our combination product in the first half of 2006. We cannot guarantee that we will in fact submit an NDA within the timeframe mentioned above. In addition, we cannot guarantee that if we do submit our NDA to the FDA, the FDA will accept our NDA for review or, if accepted for review, will approve our NDA for our combination product in a timely fashion on commercially viable terms, or at all. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is also a long, expensive and uncertain process. Even if initial results of preclinical studies or clinical trial results are positive, we may obtain different results in later stages of drug development, including failure to show desired safety and efficacy. The clinical trials of any of our product candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the product. In February 2006, we announced positive preliminary results from our U.S. randomized, three-arm (placebo/3.0%/3.9%) Phase IIb clinical study of ecabet sodium for the treatment of dry eye syndrome. The preliminary results of our Phase IIb study demonstrated a strong trend in efficacy for the lower (3%) dose with respect to ecabet sodium’s ability to address two objective signs of dry eye syndrome, corneal staining and blink rate. In addition, patients treated with the lower dose of ecabet sodium reported positive trends for reductions in symptomatology as measured by ocular surface disease index and most bothersome symptom. In the preliminary results, no efficacy trends versus placebo were observed with respect to the higher (3.9%) dose. Further analyses of our ecabet sodium Phase IIb results are ongoing. We plan to complete our analyses of our Phase IIb study results to confirm our preliminary findings and, in parallel, conduct a smaller, short-term confirmatory study designed to further define the subpopulation of patients to enroll and other elements of any future Phase III studies of ecabet sodium. Assuming confirmation of our Phase IIb preliminary results and timely and successful completion of the confirmatory study, our plan is to initiate a Phase III study of ecabet sodium for the treatment of dry eye syndrome during 2007. However, we can provide no guarantee that a complete analysis of our Phase IIb study results, or further testing of ecabet sodium, will support our preliminary Phase IIb findings or further development or regulatory approval of this drug. FDA approval can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: • FDA officials may not find a product candidate safe or effective to merit an approval; • FDA officials may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval, or they may require additional studies that would make it commercially unattractive to continue pursuit of approval; • the FDA might not approve the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers or raw material suppliers or our manufacturing processes or facilities; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; and • the FDA may approve a product candidate for indications that are narrow or under conditions that place our product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit our sales and marketing activities or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. 14 Table of Contents If the FDA does not approve our product candidates in a timely fashion on commercially viable terms or we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in clinical testing and the regulatory approval process, it will have a material adverse impact on our business. In this event, we will be dependent on the development of our other product candidates and/or our ability to successfully acquire other products and technologies. In addition, we intend to market, pursuant to our collaborations, certain of our products, and perhaps have certain of our products or raw materials manufactured, in foreign countries. For example, in accordance with our agreement with Allergan, we have filed a centralized filing with the European Medicines Evaluations Agency seeking European market approval of Vitragan for the treatment of vitreous hemorrhage. Vitragan is our proprietary formulation of highly purified ovine hyaluronidase which is commonly known in the United States as Vitrase. Many other countries, including major European countries and Japan, have similar requirements as the United States for the manufacture, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. In addition, the process of obtaining approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for similar reasons. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we might not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of our products for their prescribed treatments; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, our ability to market and promote our products is restricted to the labels approved by the FDA. If the approved labels are restrictive, our sales and marketing efforts and market acceptance and the commercial potential of our products may be negatively affected. For example, should the market not widely accept Vitrase for usage based on the label of the approved NDA, we may have to await approval of additional indications in order to reach the full market potential for this drug. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. If we are unable to sufficiently develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and/or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products. We are continuing to develop and enhance our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Although we have recently expanded our capabilities, our current resources in these areas are limited. In order to commercialize any products successfully, we must continue to develop and expand substantial sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and/or maintain our arrangements with Ventiv and Cardinal Health or establish other collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We do not have extensive experience in these areas, and we may not be able to establish adequate in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or engage and effectively manage relationships with third parties to perform any or all of such services. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion, licensing or other third party arrangements, our product revenues and returns are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, whose efforts may not be successful. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Rapid growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. We have increased our full-time employee count from 63 as of December 31, 2004 to 165 as of December 31, 2005. We expanded our sales force from 50 sales representatives as of the first quarter of 2005 to 72 sales representatives as of December 31, 2005. To manage our anticipated growth successfully, we must attract and retain qualified 15 Table of Contents personnel and manage and train them effectively. We will be dependent on our personnel and third parties to effectively manufacture, market, sell and distribute our products. We will also depend on our personnel and third parties to successfully develop and acquire new products. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, resulting in increased need for us to carefully manage these relationships and monitor for quality assurance. Although we may not in fact grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or to develop and expand a successful commercial infrastructure to support marketing and sales of our products, our business and financial results will be materially harmed. We have a history of net losses and negative cash flow, and we may need to raise additional working capital. We have never been profitable, and we might never become profitable. In this regard, we anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase from historical levels as we continue to expand our commercial infrastructure in connection with our commercialization of our approved products. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $226.5 million, including a net loss of approximately $38.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $38.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and working capital of $32.9 million. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand will be sufficient to finance anticipated capital and operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Additionally, during December 2005, we secured a revolving line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank in the amount of $10.0 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient product revenues, we may be required to raise additional capital in the future through collaborative agreements or public or private equity or debt financings. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when required such failure could have a material adverse impact on our operating plan and business. If we default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings, which could negatively impact our financial position. We have a $10.0 million revolving line of credit under a loan and security agreement, pursuant to which we may borrow money at variable rates of interest, which may expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase and our net income and cash flows would decrease. The loan and security agreement also contains certain covenants based on our financial performance. If we violate any of these financial performance covenants, or are otherwise in default, our lender has the option to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and business. If actual future payments for allowances, discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted. We recognize product revenue net of estimated allowances for discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks. Such estimates require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on industry practice, pharmaceutical companies, including us, have liberal return policies. Generally, we are obligated to accept from customers the return of pharmaceuticals that have reached their expiration date. We authorize returns for damaged products and exchanges for expired products in accordance with our return goods policy and procedures. In addition, like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesale customer pays and the price that the wholesale customer’s end-customer pays for a product. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimated allowances for discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks. Changes in estimates and assumptions based upon actual results may have a material impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and negatively impacted if actual future payments for allowances, discounts, returns, rebates and chargebacks exceed the estimates we made at the time of the sale of our products. If we have problems with our contract manufacturers, our product development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or stopped. We have entered into a master services agreement with R.P. Scherer West, Inc., which was subsequently acquired by and remains a wholly owned subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc., for the manufacture of commercial quantities of our Vitrase product in a lyophilized 6,200 USP units multi-purpose vial and a supply agreement with Alliance Medical Products, Inc. for the manufacture of commercial quantities of our Vitrase product in 200 USP units/mL in sterile solution. We also have 16 Table of Contents entered into a manufacturing services agreement with Bausch & Lomb Incorporated for the manufacture of commercial quantities of Istalol and Xibrom. Before any contract manufacturer can produce commercial quantities of a product, we must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that the product source for commercial quantities is substantially equivalent to the supply of the product used in our clinical trials. Such demonstration may include the requirement to conduct additional clinical trials. In addition, the manufacturing facilities of all of our contract manufacturers must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations, which the FDA strictly enforces. Moreover, the facilities of the contract manufacturer must undergo and pass pre-approval inspections by the FDA before any of our products can be approved for commercial manufacture and, once approved, such facilities must maintain their compliance and good standing with regulatory authorities. R.P. Scherer West, Alliance Medical Products, Bausch & Lomb, or any other manufacturer we may contract with in the future may not be able, as applicable, to develop processes necessary to produce substantially equivalent product to those products used in our clinical trials so that regulatory authorities will approve them as a manufacturer, or such facilities, once approved, may not produce on a timely basis enough product to meet our sales demands, or they may not maintain their compliance and good standing with regulatory authorities. Any such failures could delay or stop our efforts to develop our product candidates and commercialize our products. Our collaborative partners may terminate, or fail to perform their duties under, our collaboration agreements, in which case our ability to commercialize our products may be significantly impaired. We have entered into collaborations with Senju relating to Istalol, Xibrom and ecabet sodium. We have also entered into collaborations with Allergan and Otsuka relating to the commercialization of Vitrase in specified markets outside the United States for ophthalmic uses for the posterior region of the eye. In September 2004, we entered into a new agreement with Allergan, replacing our previous Vitrase collaboration, under which we reacquired all rights to market and sell Vitrase for all uses in the United States and other specified markets. Allergan retains an option to commercialize Vitrase for the posterior segment of the eye in Europe upon approval. If Allergan exercises its option, we will be dependent upon Allergan for the commercialization of Vitrase for such approved uses in Europe. If Allergan does not exercise its option, then such European rights will revert to ISTA, and we will pay Allergan a royalty on our European sales of Vitrase for use in the posterior segment of the eye. We depend on Otsuka for obtaining regulatory approval of Vitrase for ophthalmic uses for the posterior region of the eye in Japan, and if such approval is obtained, we will be dependent upon Otsuka for the commercialization of Vitrase for such approved uses in Japan. The amount or timing of resources that our partners dedicate to our collaborations is not within our control. Accordingly, any breach or termination of our agreements by, or disagreements with, these collaborators could delay or stop the development and/or commercialization of our product candidates within the scope of these collaborations, or, in the case of Allergan and Otsuka, adversely impact our receipt of milestone payments, profit splits, royalties, and other consideration from these collaborations. Our collaborative partners may change their strategic focus, terminate our agreements or choose not to exercise their options, on relatively short notice, or pursue alternative technologies. Our agreements with Otsuka and Senju contain reciprocal terms providing that neither we nor they may develop products that directly compete in the same form with the products involved in the collaboration. Nonetheless, our collaborators may develop competing products in different forms or products that compete indirectly with our products. If we have problems with our sole source suppliers, our product development and commercialization efforts for our product candidates could be delayed or stopped. Some materials used in our products are currently obtained from a single source. For example, Biozyme Laboratories, Ltd. is currently our only source for highly purified ovine hyaluronidase, which is the active ingredient in Vitrase. Our supply agreement with Biozyme ends in August 2007, after which any further supply of hyaluronidase by Biozyme to us would be subject to Biozyme’s agreement. While we are currently pursuing additional sources for this material, we may not be successful in establishing such additional supply agreements. The active ingredient for Xibrom is also supplied to us from a sole supplier. We have also entered into supply agreements with R.P. Scherer West and Alliance Medical Products to manufacture commercial quantities of Vitrase in a lyophilized 6,200 USP units multi-purpose vial and 200 USP units/mL in sterile solution, respectively. Currently, R.P. Scherer West and Alliance Medical Products each is our sole source for Vitrase in these respective configurations. We also have supply agreements with Bausch & Lomb to manufacture commercial quantities of Istalol and Xibrom. Currently, Bausch & Lomb is our sole source for Istalol and Xibrom. We have not established and may not be able to establish arrangements with additional suppliers for these ingredients or products. Difficulties in our relationship with our suppliers or delays or interruptions in such suppliers’ supply of our requirements could limit or stop our ability to provide sufficient quantities of our products, on a timely basis, for clinical trials and, for our approved products, could limit or stop commercial sales, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our dependence upon key personnel to operate our business puts us at risk of a loss of expertise if key personnel were to leave us. We depend upon the experience and expertise of our executive management team. The competition for executives, as well as for skilled product development and technical personnel, in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit the personnel we need. If we are not able to attract and retain existing and additional highly qualified management, sales, clinical and technical personnel, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Risks Related to Our Industry Compliance with extensive government regulations to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay, cessation or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and to a lesser extent by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and foreign and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of our or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers’ and manufacturers’ processes, are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. We are dependent on receiving and maintaining FDA and other governmental approvals in order to manufacture, market, sell and ship our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will not approve our products, or will take post-approval action limiting, modifying or revoking our ability to manufacture or sell our products, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. To the extent that our products are reimbursed by the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs, our marketing and sales activities will be subject to regulation. Federal agencies in recent years have initiated investigations against and entered into multi-million dollar settlements with a number of pharmaceutical companies alleging violations of fraud and abuse provisions. We will need to ensure that our sales force is properly trained to comply with these laws. Even with such training, there is a risk that some of our marketing practices could come under scrutiny, or that we will not be able to institute or continue certain marketing practices. Our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to regulation by the FDA and other agencies, and if they do not meet their commitments, we would have to find substitute suppliers or manufacturers, which could delay or prevent the supply of our products to market. Regulatory requirements applicable to pharmaceutical products make the substitution of suppliers and manufacturers costly and time consuming. We have no internal manufacturing capabilities and are, and expect to be in the future, entirely dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our products and for their active and other ingredients. The disqualification of these suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs of obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if any) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring approved products to market or could result in a delay or disruption in the manufacture, marketing or sales of our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may be required to initiate or defend against legal proceedings related to intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense, delay and/or cessation of our development and commercialization of our products. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. For example, it is not certain that: • our patents and pending patent applications cover products and/or technology that we invented first; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; and • any of our issued patents, or pending patent applications that result in issued patents, will be held valid and infringed in the event the patents are asserted against others. We currently own or license 43 U.S. and foreign patents and 78 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. Our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of such applications, may not provide us a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may face third-party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of our inventions. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. We license patent rights from the Eastern Virginia Medical School for Caprogel and from Senju for Istalol, Xibrom and ecabet sodium. Some of these license agreements do not permit us to control the prosecution, maintenance, protection and defense of such patents. If the licensor chooses not to protect its own patent rights, we may not be able to take actions to secure our related product marketing rights. In addition, if such patent licenses are terminated before the expiration of the licensed patents, we may no longer be able to continue to manufacture and sell such products as may be covered by the patents. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. Some of our trademarks, including Caprogel and Xibrom, are owned by or assignable to our licensors Eastern Virginia Medical School and Senju, and upon expiration or termination of the license agreements, we may no longer be able to use these trademarks. In addition to protecting our own intellectual property rights, we may be required to defend against third parties who assert patent, trademark or copyright infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on what they believe are their own intellectual property rights. We may be required to pay substantial damages, including but not limited to treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may be stopped from developing, manufacturing or selling our products until we obtain a license from the owner of the relevant technology or other intellectual property rights. If such a license is available at all, it may require us to pay substantial royalties or other fees. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to other parties and such patents which contain claims relating to our technology and products may exist, may have been filed, or could be issued. If such patents do exist, the owners may bring claims against us for infringement, which might have an adverse effect on our business. If third-party reimbursement is not available at satisfactory levels or at all, our products may not be accepted in the market. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products to contain costs. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payers may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for any 19 Table of Contents of our approved products or products we develop or acquire in the future, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In November 2005, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, established two new national Healthcare Common Procedure Coding Systems, or HCPCS, J-Codes covering the injection of preservative free ovine hyaluronidase. Physicians have been able to use these new J-Codes since January 2006. HCPCS Codes are used by healthcare insurers to process reimbursement claims. We believe that these two new J-Codes will help facilitate third-party reimbursement for Vitrase. However, Vitrase sales in the future could be negatively impacted by reimbursement levels established by third-party payers. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our three largest customers accounted for 17%, 38% and 25%, respectively, of our net revenues. The loss of any of our customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our cash flows. In addition, none of our customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us which would enable them to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so. The rising cost of healthcare and related pharmaceutical product pricing has lead to cost-containment pressures that could cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in less revenue to us. Any of our products that have been or in the future are approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. We anticipate that we will encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries outside the United States. We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to the products we are developing. In addition, we face competition from manufacturers of generic drugs which may have an adverse impact on our product revenues. We have numerous competitors in the United States and abroad, including major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that may be developing competing products. Such competitors may include, among others, Allergan, Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bausch & Lomb, Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, PrimaPharm, Inc. and Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective or less costly than our current or future products or product candidates or that could render our technologies, products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. Many of our competitors also have more resources committed to and expertise in effectively commercializing, marketing, and promoting products approved by the FDA, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of the products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare. In August 2005, the FDA approved Nevanac™ (nepafenac ophthalmic suspension) 0.1% for the treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery. Nevanac, sold by Alcon, is marketed as an alternative to and competes against Xibrom. 20 Table of Contents In addition, competition from generic drugs is a major challenge in the United States to branded drug companies, like us, and may have a material adverse effect on our product revenues. In October 2004, the FDA granted Istalol a “BT” rating, which means that prescriptions for Istalol cannot be substituted legally at pharmacies with generic timolol maleate products. Nonetheless, we believe that certain pharmacies may have substituted, and may be continuing to substitute, Istalol prescriptions with generic timolol maleate solutions. We have completed an educational campaign to make our customers and pharmacies aware of Istalol’s BT rating and that Istalol cannot be substituted legally at pharmacies with generic timolol maleate products. In October 2004, the FDA informed us that Vitrase (hyaluronidase for injection; lyophilized, ovine) for use as a spreading agent to facilitate the dispersion and absorption of other drugs was entitled to five-year new chemical entity market exclusivity pursuant to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA indicated that Vitrase’s new chemical entity exclusivity would bar submission to FDA of certain third party 505(b)(2) NDAs and Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, for drugs containing the same active moiety as Vitrase. The submission bar would be for five years from Vitrase’s approval date (i.e., May 5, 2004) or for four years in the case of patent challenges. The FDA also said that Vitrase’s new chemical entity exclusivity is not a prohibition on FDA’s review and approval of any 505(b)(2) NDA or ANDA that was submitted to the agency before Vitrase was granted five-year exclusivity. In October 2004, the FDA approved Amphadase (hyaluronidase injection, USP) 150 IU mL, a bovine-sourced hyaluronidase, for use as a spreading agent. Amphadase is sold by Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and competes against Vitrase. The FDA has stated that Vitrase’s five year new chemical exclusivity did not bar approval of Amphadase since Amphadase did not contain the same active moiety has Vitrase. For the purposes of market exclusivity, the FDA presumes that a product does not contain a previously approved active moiety if the agency has insufficient information to determine whether, in fact, it contains one. Like Vitrase, FDA has also granted Amphadase five year new chemical exclusivity. The FDA has stated that the hyaluronidase in these products and other previously approved products is not fully characterized and therefore insufficient information exists to determine whether the active moiety in any of these products was previously approved. In October 2005, the FDA approved Hydase (hyaluronidase injection, USP) 150 UI mL, a bovine hyaluronidase, for use as a spreading agent. Hydase is manufactured by PrimaPharm, Inc. and is sold and competes against Vitrase. In December 2005, the FDA approved Hylenex recombinant (hyaluronidase human injection) for use as a spreading agent. Hylenex is manufactured by Halozyme Therapeutics and will be marketed and sold by Baxter Healthcare and would compete against Vitrase. Our ability to secure the benefit of the Vitrase market exclusivity depends on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the timing, content and outcome of actions and decisions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding third party products and the impact and scope of the Vitrase market exclusivity and its affect on third party products. We are exposed to product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. As a commercial company, we have begun to market and promote our approved products, like Xibrom, Istalol and Vitrase, and we may be subject to various product liability claims. In addition, we may in the future recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons. We cannot assure you that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. These events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling that could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event. We currently maintain sold products and clinical trial liability insurance with per occurrence and aggregate coverage limits of $10.0 million. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with clinical trials or the sale of our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since 2001 until the present, the daily closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $133.75 per share to a low of $2.60 per share, as adjusted for the 1-for-10 reverse stock split effected November 2002. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility. Among others, the following factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fall: • the scope, outcome and timeliness of any governmental, court or other regulatory action that may involve us, including, without limitation, the scope, outcome or timeliness of any inspection or other action of the FDA; 21 Table of Contents • market acceptance and demand for our approved products; • the availability to us, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, of third-party sourced products and materials; • timely and successful implementation of our strategic initiatives, including the expansion of our commercial infrastructure to support the marketing, sale, and distribution of our approved products; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including the ability of third parties to assert patents or other intellectual property rights against us which, among other things, could cause a delay or disruption in the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of our products; • competitors’ publicity regarding actual or potential products under development or new commercial products, and the impact of competitive products and pricing; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • public concern as to the safety of new technologies; • future sales of debt or equity securities by us; • sales of our securities by our directors, officers or significant shareholders; • comments made by securities analysts; and • economic and other external factors, including disasters and other crises. We participate in a highly dynamic industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of our common stock irrespective of company performance. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the healthcare and technology industry segments or conditions in the financial markets generally. Trading in our stock over the last 12 months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005 was approximately 151,768 shares and the average daily number of transactions was approximately 480 for the same period. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our shares. We have approximately 25.9 million shares of common stock outstanding, most of which are freely tradable. In addition, we also issued warrants exercisable for the purchase of up to an aggregate of 1,842,104 shares of our common stock for a purchase price of $3.80 per share (as of December 31, 2005, 300,163 warrants have been exercised). The market price of our common stock could drop due to sales of a large number of shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, including but not limited to options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into our common stock, which could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. 22 Table of Contents Concentration of ownership and contractual board rights could delay or prevent a change in control or otherwise influence or control most matters submitted to our stockholders and could enable certain shareholders to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. As of January 31, 2006, our directors and officers, as a group, control approximately 30% of our voting securities, a concentration of ownership that could delay or prevent a change in control. We are contractually obligated to include a representative of Investor Growth Capital as a nominee for election to our board of directors and Sprout has the right to designate two such nominees. Our principal stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence and possibly control most matters submitted for approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, delaying or preventing a change of control, and the consideration of transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. Our shareholder rights plan, provisions in our charter documents, and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock, and could entrench management. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, thereby entrenching current management and possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the shareholder rights plan may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The payment of cash dividends by us is restricted by our credit facility, which contain restrictions prohibiting us from paying any cash dividends without the lender’s prior approval. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 