Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company Agricultural Risks. Wine-making and grape-growing are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Diseases, pests, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions can materially and adversely affect the quality, quantity and cost of grapes available to the Company from its own vineyards and from outside suppliers, thereby materially and adversely affecting the supply of the Company’s products and its profitability. In effect, the 2009-2010 season was characterized by a cold spring and some late freezes, which, added to the problems of irrigating the vines as a consequence of the power blackouts after Chile’s February2010 earthquake, reduced the harvest by approximately 14% from the previous year in terms of total wine obtained. On top of this, the 2010-2011 season presented different characteristics: in particular a cold spring and some late year freezes which resulted in lower agricultural yields for the national wine industry, although it did not affect the quality of the grapes harvested. Future freezes or drought conditions in Chile could severely affect the quantity or quality of the production of wine by the Company. Most of the Company vineyards have drip irrigation; accordingly, the impact of a drought on the Company’s vineyards would be mitigated. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Chilean Wine Industry Overview.” Phylloxera, a pest which attacks the roots of grapevines, has widely infested vineyards outside of Chile but to date has never been found in Chilean vineyards. The Company, like most Chilean wine grape growers, still uses the French root varieties which are susceptible to phylloxera. While the Company carefully screens new root stock for signs of infestation and adheres to the regulations imposed by the Servicio Agrícola y Ganadero (the “Chilean Agriculture Service”) requiring that all vegetation introduced into Chile be isolated under observation for a period of two years, there can be no assurance that the Company’s vineyards and other Chilean vineyards will continue to be phylloxera-free. Infestation could have a material adverse effect on the Company while vineyards are being replanted and as they come into full production. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Chilean Wine Industry Overview — Phylloxera.” Risks Associated with Higher Taxes, Tariffs. The Company’s core business is the production and sales of wines. Wines are subject to a number of taxes and tariffs, including excise taxes in the United States, in the United Kingdom and in the Company’s other principal export markets. Additional increases in such taxes and tariffs could depress wine consumption in those markets and could adversely affect the Company’s sales. 5 In addition, there is a risk that other countries could impose or threaten to impose restrictions on imports of certain countries’ wines in connection with trade negotiations with such countries. Although Chile has not been the specific target of such actions or threats from the United States, the European Union or other countries, if restrictions were imposed on Chilean wines, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Increases in Chilean taxes on wine could adversely affect the Company’s wine sales in Chile. Government Regulation. The production and sale of wine is subject to extensive regulation within and outside of Chile. Those regulations control matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. For example, it is the current policy of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives that any statements made by a wine producer promoting the potential health benefits of wine must be balanced and must include appropriate statements regarding the established harmful effects of alcohol use. In recent years, U.S. federal and state regulators have required warning labels and signage. Currently the Chilean Congress is discussing a new law that will regulate labeling of alcoholic beverages in Chile. There can be no assurance that new or revised regulations or increased licensing fees and related requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its results of operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Government Regulation.” Future expansion of the Company’s existing facilities and development of new vineyards and wineries may be limited by present and future zoning ordinances and other legal requirements. Availability of water and requirements for handling waste water can limit the Company’s growth. While the Company believes that it will continue to be in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that future legislative or regulatory developments will not impose restrictions which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Government Regulation.” Dependence on Distributors. The Company relies on distributors to sell its products in export markets. Sales to the Company’s largest distributor, Banfi Products Corporation (“Banfi”) in the United States represented 11.7% and 12.7% of the Company’s total export revenues in 2010 and 2009; and 8.7% and 10.0% of total revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to the Company’s five largest distributors, including Banfi, represented 28.5% and 28.8% of total export revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively and are expected to continue to represent a significant portion of the Company’s total export revenues in the future. The Company has written agreements with most of its distributors—usually one– to two–year terms, automatically renewable. In addition, the Company’s strategy to expand sales in major export markets is to a large extent dependent on the performance of its distributors. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Company Sales — Export Markets — Distribution in Export Markets.” Distributors and retailers of the Company’s products often offer wines which compete directly with the Company’s products for shelf space and consumers. Accordingly, there is a risk that these distributors or retailers may give higher priority to products of the Company’s competitors. There can be no assurance that the Company’s distributors and retailers will continue to purchase the Company’s products or provide the Company’s products with adequate levels of promotional support. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Company Sales — Export Markets — Distribution in Export Markets.” Dependence on Suppliers. The Company relies on Cristalerías de Chile S.A. (“Cristalerías”) to supply almost all of its bottle requirements. Cristalerías is a principal shareholder of one of the Company’s main competitors, Viña Santa Rita S.A. (“Santa Rita”). Although there are another two suppliers of bottles with smaller capacities, an interruption in the supply of bottles from Cristalerías to the Company for any reason could result in a short-term material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company has a license from Tetra Pak de Chile Comercial Ltda. (“Tetra Pak Chile”) to package wine in Tetra Brik packages and purchases these unassembled pre-printed packages from Tetra Pak Chile. Wine sold in Tetra Brik packages accounted for approximately 65.6% and 50.8% of the Company’s domestic sales by volume and value, respectively, in 2010 and 67.8% and 52.8%, respectively, in 2009. Although the Company believes that alternate suppliers are available, an interruption in the supply of Tetra Brik packages to the Company for any reason could result in a short-term material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Bottling.” 6 The Company currently relies on approximately 859 outside vineyards for supplies of grapes and approximately 60 producers for bulk wine. In 2010, approximately 67%, of the grapes used in the production of the Company’s premium, varietal and, bi-varietal wines were purchased by the Company from independent growers in Chile. Additionally, in 2010, the Company purchased grapes and bulk wine required to produce approximately 100% of the popular wines sold by the Company. Most of the Company’s agreements with growers only cover one year’s production and are renewed from year to year. In 2010, the Company had long-term contracts with up to approximately 23% of its growers. Disruptions of supplies of grapes or wine or increases in prices from these outside suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Competition. The wine industry in Chile and in the Company’s export markets is intensely competitive. In Chile and in approximately 135 other countries, the Company’s wines compete with wines and other beverages from Chile and other countries. Chilean wines, in general, compete with wines produced in the United States, Europe, Australia, South Africa, South America and New Zealand. In addition, the Company’s wines compete with other beverages including soft drinks, liquors, beer and, in Chile, pisco (a Chilean grape spirit). Many of the Company’s competitors in Chile and abroad have significantly greater financial resources than the Company. Due to competitive factors, the Company may not be able to increase prices of its wines in line with rising grape and bulk wine purchase prices, or farming, vinification, selling and promotional costs. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” There can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be able to compete successfully with its current competitors or that it will not face greater competition from other wineries and beverage manufacturers. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Company Sales — Chilean Markets — Local Competition” and “— Company Sales — Export Markets — Export Sales and Competition.” Dependence on Consumer Spending. The success of the Company’s business depends on a number of factors which may affect the level of consumer spending and consumer spending patterns in Chile and in the Company’s export markets, including the general state of the economy, tax rates, the deductibility of business entertainment expenses under applicable tax laws and consumer preferences, confidence and income. As widely reported, the worldwide and Chilean economies have experienced adverse conditions in the past and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future, due to the slow pace of the economic recovery worlwide. The Company is subject to risks associated with these adverse conditions. These conditions include economic slowdown and its impact on consumer spending in Chile and in the Company’s export markets can affect the quantity and price of wines that customers are willing to purchase. Such changes may result in reduced demand and lower prices for the Company’s products, limitations on the Company’s ability to pass through increased taxes and higher product costs to price-sensitive consumers, increased levels of selling and promotional expenses and decreased sales of the Company’s higher-priced premium and varietal wines. Consequently, changes in consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Acquisitions and Dispositions. The Company ocassionally engages in acquisitions of businesses and additional brands. We cannot assure that we will be able to find and purchase businesses at acceptable prices and terms. The Company also faces risks involved in integration of acquired businesses and personnel into the Company’s existing systems and operations, and to bring them into conformity with our trade practice standards, financial control environment and reporting requirements. Integration involves significant expense and management time and attention, and may otherwise disrupt the Company’s business. The Company’s recent acquisition of Fetzer Vineyards in April 2011 will pose challenges and may impact the Company’s future performance. Brand or business acquisitions also may expose the Company to unknown liabilities, the possible loss of key customers and/or employees knowledgeable about the acquired business, and risks associated with doing business in countries or regions outside Chile, political climates, and legal systems and/or economies, among other risks. Acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expenses, issue additional shares, and become exposed to contingent liabilities, as well as to experience dilution in earnings per share and reduction in return on average invested capital. The Company may incur future restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill and or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, and may not achieve expected synergies, cost savings or other targets, all of which may negatively affect financial results. The Company evaluates from time-to-time potential dispositions that may no longer meet our growth, return and/or strategic objectives; such dispositions may impact the Company’s financial results, and we cannot predict the terms or conditions of such dispositions, nor expect to find acceptable buyers in a timely manner. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt the Company’s other business operations. Any of these outcomes could impact the Company’s financial results. 7 Difficulty of Enforcing Judgments Under U.S. Federal Securities Laws. The ability of a purchaser of American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) of the Company to enforce judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors and executive officers may be limited by several factors. The Company is a sociedad anónima abierta (an “open stock corporation”) organized under the laws of Chile. All of the Company’s directors and officers and many of its advisors reside outside of the United States (principally in Chile). All or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company and of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States on the Company or its officers, directors or advisors, or to enforce against them in United States courts judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. The Company’s Estatutos (the “By-Laws”) provide that all legal actions brought by shareholders in their capacity as such, or among shareholders and the Company, must be submitted either to resolution by the ordinary courts of Chile or to arbitration in Chile by an arbitrator chosen by mutual consent of both parties. If the parties cannot select an arbitrator acceptable to both, an arbitrator will be appointed by the ordinary courts of Chile who will have to have served during the last 3 years as assistant member of the Chilean Supreme Court. The By-Laws also provide that the arbitrator would act as an árbitro arbitrador, who under Chilean law would not be required to apply any particular body of law or procedures (except as a matter of public policy) and would be authorized to decide the matter in accordance with his or her view of what is just and equitable. Because an arbitrator is not required to apply any particular body of law or procedure to decide a matter, it is not clear that an arbitrator would consider a claim predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws. Under Chilean law, therefore, there is uncertainty regarding the ability of ADS holders to bring actions against the Company or its officers, directors or advisors based upon U.S. federal securities law, whether in Chilean courts or arbitration proceedings. In addition, a court in the United States might require that a claim predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the By-Laws. In that event, a purchaser of ADS would be effectively precluded from pursuing remedies under the U.S. federal securities laws in U.S. courts. The Company has been advised by its Chilean counsel, Cruzat, Ortúzar & Mackenna Ltda. – Baker & McKenzie, that no treaty exists between the United States and Chile for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments issued by ordinary courts (exception made of awards issued by foreign arbitral courts, where the UN New York Convention may be applied). Chilean courts, however, have enforced judgments rendered by United States courts provided that certain basic principles of due process and public policy have been respected (basically that the judgment (a) does not contain anything contrary to the laws of Chile, notwithstanding differences in procedural rules, (b) is not in conflict with Chilean jurisdiction, (c) has not been rendered by default within the meaning of Chilean law and (d) is final under the laws of the relevant foreign jurisdiction rendering such judgment), without reviewing the merits of the subject matter in the case. Nevertheless, the Company has been advised by Cruzat, Ortúzar & Mackenna Ltda. – Baker & McKenzie that a judgment rendered by a US court will be in conflict with Chilean jurisdiction if it affects in any way properties located in Chile, which are as a matter of Chilean law subject to the laws of Chile as well as to the jurisdiction of Chilean courts. Therefore, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Chile of judgments rendered with respect to Chilean securities, by United States courts in actions predicated upon the civil liability of the U.S. federal securities laws. Seasonality. The wine industry in general and the Company in particular, have historically experienced and are expected to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in revenues and net income. In the past, the Company has had lower sales and net income during the first quarter and higher sales and net income during the third and fourth quarters. The Company expects this trend to continue. Sales can fluctuate significantly between quarters, depending on the timing of certain holidays and promotional periods and on the rate at which distributor inventories are depleted through sales to wine retailers. Sales volume tends to decrease if distributors begin a quarter with larger inventory levels, which is typically the case in the first quarter of each year. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Seasonality.” 8 Risks Relating to Chile Dependence on the Chilean Economy. As of December 2010, 92% of the Company’s assets were located in Chile. This percentage has been reduced due to the acquisition of Fetzer Vineyards in April 2011. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Historical Development of the Company.” In 2010 and 2009, sales in the Chilean market accounted for approximately 23.2% and 21.4%, respectively, of the Company’s total revenues. Historically, domestic wine sales show a high degree of correlation with the economic situation prevailing in a country. Accordingly, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependent to a significant extent upon economic conditions prevailing in Chile. The main Chilean indicators for 2009 and 2010 were: · Real GDP decreased 1.7% in 2009 and increased 5.3% in 2010. · Private consumption grew 0.9% in 2009 and 10.4% in 2010. · The unemployment rate was 8.6% and 7.3% in December 2009 and 2010, respectively. As of February 2011, the unemployment rate was 7.3%, compared to 8.5% in February 2010. · As a percentage of GDP, investment in fixed assets was 25.1% in 2009 and 28.4% in 2010. Source: Central Bank of Chile. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected by changes which the Company has no control over, including: · the economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has a substantial influence on many aspects of the private sector; · other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile; and · regulatory changes or administrative practices of Chilean authorities. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations also depend to some extent on the level of economic activity in both Latin American and other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Volatile and Illiquid Nature of the Market for the Common Stock in Chile. The Common Stock of the Company is traded on the Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago (the “Santiago Stock Exchange”), the Bolsa Electrónica de Chile and the Bolsa de Corredores — Bolsa de Valores (collectively, the “Chilean Exchanges”). The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Santiago Stock Exchange, which is Chile’s principal exchange and which accounted for over 86% of Chile’s equity trading volume in 2010, had a market capitalization of approximately Ch$ 159,966 billion (approximately US$341.8 billion) as of December 31, 2010 and an average monthly trading of Ch$ 2,161 billion (approximately US$4,617 million). The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 47.5% of the aggregate market capitalization of the Santiago Stock Exchange as of December 31, 2010. Daily share trading volumes on the Santiago Stock Exchange are on average substantially lower than those on the principal national securities exchanges in the United States. The ten most widely-traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 52.4% of all trading volume on the Santiago Stock Exchange in 2010. During 2010, approximately 22.4% of the securities listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange traded an average of 85% or more of the trading days. In addition, the Chilean securities markets may be affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. 9 Currency Fluctuations. The Chilean peso has been subject to large fluctuations in value in the past, most recently during the past five year period and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. See Item 3 — “Key Information — Exchange Rates.” Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and other currencies affect the performance of the Company’s ADS, as well as the Company’s financial condition and results of operation in a variety of ways. Because the ADS are denominated in U.S. dollars, a decrease in the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the value of the Company and its Common Stock underlying the ADS. Whether a depreciation of the Chilean peso would adversely affect the value of the Company and its assets would depend on a variety of factors, including the ability of the Company and investors to access the foreign exchange markets in Chile, the timing, volume and execution of the Company’s treasury functions to convert foreign currency into Chilean pesos, the value of revenues denominated in foreign currency relative to Chilean pesos, the relative balances of Chilean pesos and foreign currency owned by the Company at any time and market perceptions of the severity of the impact of such events on the Company. If these and other factors, which may influence the value of the Company and its assets in either direction, have an aggregate negative effect on the value of the Company and its assets, a depreciation of the value of the Chilean peso would result in a decrease of the valuation of the assets underlying the ADS in U.S. dollar terms, thereby resulting in a decrease in the value of the ADS. Because the Company’s export sales are primarily denominated in foreign currencies, changes in these foreign currencies to the Chilean peso may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Over 76% of the Company’s revenues are related to foreign sales that are denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling, Canadian dollars, Argentine pesos, Brazilian reais and Swedish and Norwegian crowns. Changes in these foreign currencies relative to the Chilean peso may result in operating losses for the Company and its subsidiaries. In order to mitigate the short-term effect of changes in currency exchange rates, the Company enters into, from time to time, forward exchange agreements. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. The Company completed the acquisition of Fetzer Vineyards in April 2011. This acquisition should further mitigate the short-term effect of changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. The Company holds assets in different currencies through its subsidiaries, whose assets are subject to currency fluctuation. The Company has used financial instruments to minimize this effect. Because the Company purchases some of its supplies at prices set at U.S. dollars and sells the products in other currencies, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risks that may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Most notably, the Company purchases bottles, corks and Tetra Brik packages at prices set in U.S. dollars or Euros. To the extent that the Company sells products with these components for pesos or other non-U.S. currencies or Euros, changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and Euros relative to these other currencies may result in losses and adversely affect the Company’s financial and operating results. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” In addition, cash distributions with respect to shares of Common Stock underlying the ADS are paid by the Company to the Depositary on behalf of shareholders in Chilean pesos. The Depositary then converts the pesos to U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate to pay the dividend on the ADS in U.S. dollars. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar between the declaration of dividends and the distribution of such dividends by the Depositary, the amount of U.S. dollars distributed to holders of ADS will decrease. See Item 3 — “Key Information — Exchange Rates.” Restrictions on Foreign Investment and Repatriation. The Law of the Central Bank of Chile authorizes the Central Bank of Chile to regulate foreign exchange transactions, including those relating to ADS facilities. At the time the ADS facility was issued, the Central Bank had issued certain regulations (the “Former Regulations”) imposing the obligation to obtain the previous authorization from the Central Bank of Chile and the execution of an agreement with such bank in order to proceed with an ADS facility. Due to the above, the ADS facility is subject to a contract between the Depositary, the Company and the Central Bank of Chile (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) that grants the Depositary and the holders of the ADS access to Chile’s Formal Exchange Market and permits the Depositary to remit dividends received from the Company to holders of ADS without restriction. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Exchange Controls” for a more detailed description of the new regulations and the Foreign Investment Contract. 10 Under the Foreign Investment Contract, transferees of shares withdrawn from the ADS facility will not be entitled to access Chile’s Formal Exchange Market unless the withdrawn shares are redeposited with the Depositary. Cash and property dividends paid by the Company with respect to ADS held by a non-Chilean resident holder are subject to a 35% Chilean withholding tax, which is withheld by the Company. However, stock dividends are deemed a non-taxable event pursuant to Chilean Income Tax Law and, thus, are not subject to Chilean taxation. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Taxation.” The Foreign Investment Contract is currently in force and will continue to govern the ADS facility until all parties agree to terminate it. If the Foreign Investment Contract is terminated, the ADS facility would then become subject to the New Regulations (as defined below). Under Chilean legislation, a Foreign Investment Contract may not be altered or affected adversely by actions of the Central Bank of Chile. The Central Bank of Chile relaxed foreign exchange restrictions in year 2002, allowing entities and individuals to purchase, sell, keep and remit abroad foreign currency without restrictions, although the Central Bank of Chile still requires reports of such transactions to be filed with it. The Central Bank of Chile adopted a new Foreign Exchange Regulations Compendium (the “New Regulations”) published in the Official Gazette on January 23, 2002 and effective as of March 1, 2002. The New Regulations impose only three levels of restrictions or obligations on foreign exchange transactions in Chile: (i) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency must be conducted through the Formal Exchange Market (i.e., a commercial bank) and reported to the Central Bank of Chile (e.g., investments, loans, deposits and certain other transactions in excess of Ch$ 4.7 million (approximately US$10,000)); (ii) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency to be remitted abroad must be conducted through the Formal Exchange Market without any reporting obligation (e.g., all license and royalty payments to be remitted abroad); and (iii) certain transactions requiring exchange of foreign currency must only be reported to the Central Bank of Chile (e.g., payments regarding import and export transactions, etc.). Because the Law of the Central Bank of Chile authorizes the Central Bank of Chile to regulate foreign exchange transactions, including those relating to ADS facilities, it may re-establish more restrictive regulations on foreign exchange affecting ADS holders of the Company at any time. Thus, in the event that the Foreign Investment Contract were terminated, an amendment to the New Regulations could, among other things, restrict the ability of ADS holders to dispose of the underlying shares of Common Stock of the ADS or repatriate proceeds of the Common Stock. The duration or impact of any such restrictions would be difficult to assess. Differences in Corporate Disclosure and Accounting-Taxation Standards. The principal objective of Chile’s securities laws governing publicly traded companies, such as the Company, is to promote disclosure of all material corporate information to investors. In addition, Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation. However, the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets and Chilean disclosure requirements differ from those in the United States. These differences may result in fewer protections for holders of ADS than would exist if United States securities laws governed the Company’s domestic securities transactions. Nevertheless, during 2009 a new set of rules were enacted (Law of Corporate Governance N° 20.382) in order to improve the protection of the minority shareholders; these rules focused principally on the following matters: · Reducing information asymmetries between shareholders: The Law of Corporate Governance (i) requires the board of directors of a company to generate a set of rules designed to ensure the timely and complete release of information required by the Chilean Securities and Insurance Supervisor (“SVS”), the stock exchange markets and the general public; (ii) requires the board of directors of a company to ensure that all legal and financial information required to be released to the shareholders and the general public, shall not first be disclosed to anyone in the company other than those employees or executives who, because of their position or activity, should know this information before it is made available to shareholders and the general public; and (iii) requires the company to issue a set of rules and procedures regarding variation in or changes to securities prices, applicable to all directors and executives. 11 · Strengthening the role of the independent director as a representative of minority shareholders: The Law of Corporate Governance clearly establishes who may serve in a company as independent director and clearly states the procedure for their election. The Law of Corporate Governance requires at least one independent director on a local director’s committee. · Ensuring the Corporate welfare in transactions with related parties: The Law of Corporate Governance provides strict procedures for approving related party transactions. Excluding minor exceptions, transactions with related parties shall have prior approval and shall be carried out only if they promote the corporate welfare. · Long distance voting for shareholder’s meetings: The Law of Corporate Governance also authorizes long distance voting for shareholder’s meetings according to general rulings issued by the SVS. · New right of retirement scenario: The Law of Corporate Governance includes the right of the minority shareholders to force the controlling shareholder to purchase their shares if it acquires more than a 95% stake of a company. · Insider Information: The use of insider information for personal benefit is prohibited under Chilean corporate law. In 2007 the SVS and the Company began a migration program from local accounting principles (Chilean GAAP) to (IFRS). Since year 2010 the Company’s financial statements are presented in accordance with IFRS principles. Differences in Shareholders’ Rights. The corporate affairs of the Company are governed by Chilean law and the By-Laws. The By-Laws perform functions similar to those performed by both the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of a corporation incorporated in the United States. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Estatutos (By-Laws).” The principles of law applicable to the Company and its shareholders differ from those that would apply if the Company were incorporated in the United States. However, shareholders who own 5% or more of the Company as well as any of its directors are entitled to take legal action in the name of the Company against anyone who may have caused damage to the Company. Inflation. Although inflation in Chile has moderated in recent years, Chile has historically experienced high levels of inflation. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The annual rates of inflation for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 3.0%, -2.3% and 8.9%, respectively. The Company believes that moderate inflation will not materially affect its business in Chile. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that inflation in Chile will not increase significantly from its current levels and that the operating results of the Company or the value of the ADS will not be affected adversely by a continuation of or an increase in the level of inflation. 