Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the common stock of any company involves a degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of risk factors set forth below could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations for company operations, as well as franchised operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and shareholders may lose part or all of their investment. We are dependent on key personnel. We believe that our success will depend in part on the services of key executives, including James C. Verney, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Robyn B. Mabe, Vice President Chief Financial Officer. We maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Verney. Nevertheless, the loss of the services of Mr. Verney, or Mrs. Mabe, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations, as there could be no assurance that qualified replacements would be available in a timely manner, if at all. Our continued growth will also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. Our stock price could be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuates that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The volume of trading in the market for our common stock is very limited, which may make it difficult to liquidate your investment and can increase price volatility. Due to changes in the balance of buy and sell orders and other factors, the price of our common stock can change for reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. Fluctuates in our operating results, failure of such operating results to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our stock, the success, or perceived success, of our competitors, as well as changes in general economic or market conditions and changes in the restaurant industry may also have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market price to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could substantially reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock. As of March 31, 2006, 11,888,571 shares of common stock were outstanding and 670,000 shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at exercise prices ranging from $0.83 to $1.03. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on prevailing market prices. However, substantial amounts of our common stock could be sold in the public market, which may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock. We are controlled by a few stockholders. Four stockholders, together currently beneficially own approximately 43% of our total common stock, and have formed a group for purposes of taking certain action, as reflected in the Form 13D, as amended, on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This group is comprised of Sardar Biglari, our Chairman, Shawn Sedaghat, Jonathan Dash and Titus W. Greene, a Director. This group has the ability to control or significantly influence all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our directors. Sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by the members of this group, or other principal stockholders in the public market, could substantially reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock. 8 Our Board of Directors has recently undergone significant change. In November 2005, we added three new members to our Board of Directors, namely Sardar Biglari, Philip L. Cooley and Paul D. Sonkin. Subsequently, in March 2006, six of the incumbent directors, namely Paul C. Schorr, III (our former chairman), A. Jones Yorke, J. Alan Cowart, Jr., Pat Vezertzis, Jesse M. Harrington and Roger D. Sack, resigned from the Board. At that same time Mr. Sonkin indicated that he would not stand for reelection at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. While we believe that the Board of Directors as presently constituted with Mr. Biglari as Chairman, and with Titus W. Greene, Thomas M. Hontzas and Philip L. Cooley will function at least as well as the Board had done previously, there is no guarantee that this will be the case. The failure of the new members of the Board to function adequately together would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, and could result in an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure the success of our planned growth. The growth strategy of the Company is dependent upon factors, some which are out of our control, including availability of appropriate financing and general economic conditions. Growth is somewhat dependent upon the success of the remodels, growth projects and joint ventures scheduled for 2006. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in all endeavors or be able to successfully market the brands to potential investors and franchisee-owners. We are experiencing a decline in our franchise base. The Company has experienced steady declines in its existing franchise base. Over the last 10 years, the Company has closed a net of approximately 175 restaurants, averaging between a net decline of 15 to 20 per year. The majority of these franchised restaurants have been Western Sizzlin’s. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive environment. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive industry comprised of a large number of restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as locally-owned, independent restaurants. Price, restaurant location, food quality, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition, and the competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population and traffic patterns and economic conditions. Therefore, new competitors may emerge at any time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. We are highly dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. We are extremely dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we would suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting and retaining replacement personnel. Moreover, we could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new store openings due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater expense to recruit and train them. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be impacted by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. Proposals have been made at federal and state levels to increase minimum wage levels. An increase in the minimum wage may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. We are dependent upon the timely delivery of fresh ingredients. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our 9 food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. Historically, when operating expenses increased due to inflation or increases in food costs, we generally have been able to offset these higher costs by increasing our menu prices. However, we many not be able to recover increased costs in the future because competition may limit or even prohibit such future increases. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional, and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles or a worsening economy, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in come or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs of any which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to offset inflation through periodic menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, we may not be able to completely do so which could negatively affect our results of operations. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation relating to food-borne illness, employment and other matters that could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. We may from time to time be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. While the risk of food-borne illness is real, whether it results from improper operations, new diseases (such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or “mad cow disease”) or from chemicals in certain food products, the risk would generally only affect a limited number of our restaurants. As soon as any food issues became known to us, those food items that were potentially at risk would be no longer served to customers. While the risk of food-borne illness or injury would likely be localized, the risk of the adverse publicity that might result from such an incident is more generalized and accordingly much greater. The general public’s response to adverse publicity relating to our restaurant brands could materially adversely affect a significant number of our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations underlying the adverse publicity are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, we are from time to time subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our planned sales growth through new, relocated or remodeled restaurants may not be successful. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to various risks such as the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable terms for new locations, the need to obtain the required government permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, increases in labor and building material costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in 10 construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants for an indeterminate amount of time. At each potential location, we compete with other restaurants and retail businesses for desirable development sites, construction contractors, management personnel, hourly employees and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. We are regulated by the federal and state government. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, building codes, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, employment tax rates, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and citizenship requirements), federal and state law which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the American with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Adverse weather conditions could negatively impact our financial performance. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes and other acts of God can adversely impact our sales in several ways. For example, severe weather typically discourages potential customers from dining out. In addition, a restaurant that is damaged by a natural disaster can be inoperable for a significant amount of time due to either physical damage or to a shortage of employees resulting from a relocation of the general population. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 