Item 1A. Risk Factors We are dependent on key personnel. We believe that our success depends in part on the services of Sardar Biglari, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Robyn B. Mabe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Biglari or Mrs. Mabe could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Qualified replacements may not be available in a timely manner, if at all. Our continued growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. Our stock price could be volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price may result from general market conditions, perceived changes in the underlying characteristics of our business, and the relative price of competing investments. The volume of trading in the market for our common stock is typically very limited. As a consequence, liquidating your investment could cause a decline in our stock price. Because of changes in the balance of buy and sell orders, notwithstanding other relevant factors, the price of our common stock can fluctuate for reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. We are controlled by a few stockholders. Two stockholders, Sardar Biglari, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Jonathan Dash, a director, beneficially own or exercise voting power over approximately 61% of our total common stock. In particular, Mr. Biglari controls approximately 35% and Mr. Dash approximately 26% of our outstanding common stock. Further details on their respective holdings are reflected in their Schedules 13D, as amended, which are filed with the SEC. Were these stockholders to agree to act in concert, they would have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of its directors. Sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by these principal stockholders in the public market could substantially reduce the prevailing market price of the common stock. Our Board of Directors has recently undergone significant change. In November 2005, we added three new members to its Board of Directors, namely Sardar Biglari, Philip L. Cooley and Paul D. Sonkin. Subsequently, in March 2006, six of the incumbent directors, Paul C. Schorr, III (former Chairman), A. Jones Yorke, J. Alan Cowart, Jr., Pat Vezertzis, Jesse M. Harrington and Roger D. Sack, resigned from the Board. At that same time Mr. Sonkin indicated that he would not stand for reelection at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. He ultimately resigned prior to the annual meeting. Jonathan Dash was elected to the Board in March 2006. Thomas M. Hontzas resigned from the Board in August 2006. Kenneth R. Cooper was elected to the Board in February 2007 and Martin S. Fridson was elected to the Board in November 2007. While we believe that the Board of Directors as presently constituted with Sardar Biglari as Chairman, Philip L. Cooley as Vice Chairman and Directors Titus W. Greene, Jonathan Dash, Kenneth R. Cooper and Martin S. Fridson, will function at least as well as the Board had done previously, there is no guarantee this will be the case. The failure of the Board to function adequately together would have a material adverse effect on our business. This could result in an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We recently formed a new wholly-owned subsidiary, Western Investments, Inc., to serve as the general partner of a private investment limited partnership, Western Acquisitions, L.P. Western Investments will bear the first 30% of any cumulative net losses otherwise allocable to the capital accounts of certain limited partners. In April 2007, we formed Western Investments, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Western Investments, Inc. is the general partner of Western Acquisitions, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership also formed in April 2007. The purpose of Western Acquisitions, L.P. is to invest primarily in equity securities of U.S. publicly traded companies. Sardar Biglari, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, will manage the portfolio. Western 6 Investments, Inc. will bear the first 30% of any cumulative net losses otherwise allocable to the capital accounts of limited partners holding Class B interests of Western Acquisitions, L.P. In the event that Western Investments, Inc. has insufficient resources to fund this commitment, it may be necessary for us to make a capital contribution to keep that company from defaulting on its obligation. Such an event could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial position and prevents us from using the funds provided to Western Investments, Inc. in other areas. As of the date of this filing, Western Acquisitions, L.P. did not have any limited partners holding Class B interests. We recently formed a new wholly-owned subsidiary, Western Properties, Inc. to serve as the general partner of a private investment limited partnership, Western Real Estate, L.P., which had no limited partners in 2007 but intends to operate as a private real estate investment partnership. In December 2007, we formed Western Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Western Properties is the general partner of Western Real Estate, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership also formed in December 2007. There were no limited partners in the partnership at December 31, 2007 and the sole activity of these entities in 2007 was the purchase by the limited partnership of 23 acres of real property in Bexar County, Texas from an unaffiliated third party. It is the intention of Western Real Estate, L.P., to operate as a private limited partnership investing in real estate however this venture is in the formative stages and there is no guarantee that it will be successful. We are dependent on one key person for investment and capital allocation decisions. Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for us and our subsidiaries, including Western Acquisitions, by Sardar Biglari, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President. Although there are limitations on Mr. Biglari’s authority at the parent company level and our Board of Directors monitors his investment and capital allocation decisions, there is risk in having concentrated decision-making authority. Mr. Biglari’s decisions could either independently or in the aggregate involve amounts that are material to our business. Additionally, if for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, since he is singularly responsible for these decisions. Our investments in marketable securities, including through Western Acquisitions L.P., are highly concentrated. Our investments in marketable securities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P., are highly concentrated. A decline in the market value of these investments may result in a decrease in our stock price. Our investment activities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P., may involve the purchase of securities on margin. We may purchase securities on margin in connection with our investment activities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P. If we do so, a significant decrease in the value of the securities that collateralize the margin line of credit could result in a margin call. If we do not have sufficient cash available from other sources in the event of a margin call, we may be required to sell those securities at a time when we would prefer not to sell them. Our investment activities could require registration as an Investment Company. While we have historically been principally engaged in franchising and operating restaurants, our recent investment activities could bring us within the definition of an “investment company” and require us to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring management to restrict the Company’s operations and investment activities to avoid becoming an investment company, until and unless the Board approves otherwise. We do not intend to change our principal business and the Board has not approved otherwise. Although we do not presently intend to change its principal business, and the Board has not approved any such change, we have expanded our investment activities, and may decide in the future to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Also, under certain circumstances, if we are successful in investment activities, then we may inadvertently fall within the definition of an investment company, in which event we may be required to register as an investment company. Notwithstanding our Board policy, if our investment activities inadvertently result in our being determined to be an investment company and we fail to register as an investment company, we might be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and third parties could seek rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period that we were an 7 unregistered investment company, subject to equitable considerations set forth in the Investment Company Act. In addition, we might be subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought against us by the SEC. If we decide to register as an investment company, then we would become subject to various provisions of the Investment Company Act and the regulations adopted under such Act, which are very extensive and could adversely affect our operations. For example, we might be prohibited from entering into or continuing transactions with certain of our affiliates. We are experiencing a decline in our franchise base. We have experienced steady declines in our existing franchise base for the past several years. Since January 1, 2005, we had a total of 35 closures and currently have a total of 116 franchised restaurants. Of the 35 closed restaurants the majority were Western Sizzlin brand restaurants. The average annual sales of our franchised restaurants are approximately $1.6 million. The average annual sales of the closed restaurants were $1.0 million or less. The closures of franchised restaurants were caused by their operating at a competitive disadvantage which stemmed from such factors as location, facility, lack of reinvestment and mismanagement, among others factors. There is no guarantee that these reasons will be eliminated. Moreover, these closures occurred during generally favorable economic conditions and it is possible that this trend could accelerate in the event of an economic downturn or recession. While we are striving to reverse this trend by revitalizing our franchise models, there is no assurance that we will be successful in doing so and as a result our franchise base may continue to decline regardless of the economic environment. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive environment. Our restaurants, both franchised and Company-owned, operate in a highly competitive industry comprised of a large number of restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as locally-owned, independent restaurants. Price, restaurant location, food quality, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition. The competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population and traffic patterns and economic conditions. New competitors may emerge at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future. Competition may have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. We are highly dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. We are extremely dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we would suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting and retaining replacement personnel. We could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new store openings due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater expense to recruit and train them. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be impacted by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. An increase in the minimum wage may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. We are dependent upon the timely delivery of fresh ingredients. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. Historically, when operating expenses increased due to inflation or increases in food costs, we generally have been able to offset these higher costs by increasing our menu prices. We may not be able to recover increased costs in the future because competition may limit or even prohibit such future increases. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. 8 General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional, and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles or a worsening economy, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to offset inflation through periodic menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, we may not be able to completely do so. This may negatively affect our results of operations. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation relating to food-borne illness, employment and other matters that could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. While the risk of food-borne illness is real, whether it results from improper operations, new diseases or from chemicals in certain food products, the risk would generally only affect a limited number of our restaurants. As soon as any food issues became known to us, those food items that were potentially at risk would be no longer served to customers. While the risk of food-borne illness or injury would likely be localized, the risk of the adverse publicity that might result from such an incident is more generalized and accordingly much greater. The general public’s response to adverse publicity relating to our restaurant brands could materially adversely affect a significant number of our restaurants. This could be true whether the allegations underlying the adverse publicity are valid or whether we are liable. Furthermore, more generalized health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken due to reported incidents of diseases such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“mad cow disease”) or Avian Influenza (“bird flu”) could lead to changes in customer preferences, reduce consumption of our products and adversely affect our financial performance. These events could also reduce the available supply of beef or chicken or significantly raise the prices of beef or chicken. In addition, we are subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are regulated by the federal and state government. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites. Those are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and building codes. Federal and state laws govern our relationships with employees, including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, employment tax rates, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and citizenship requirements. Federal and state laws prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the American with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business. These could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. 9 Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties such as fire could negatively impact our financial performance. Although we maintain, and require our franchisees to maintain, property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire and other acts of God can adversely impact our sales in several ways. For example, severe weather typically discourages potential customers from dining out. In addition, a restaurant that is damaged by a natural disaster can be inoperable for a significant amount of time due to either physical damage or to a shortage of employees resulting from a relocation of the general population. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. In September 2006, we were served with a lawsuit filed in the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas, captioned Parks Land Company, LLLP, et al. v. Western Sizzlin Corporation, et al. The plaintiffs are owners/landlords of four restaurant premises located in the Little Rock, Arkansas metropolitan area which had been leased pursuant to a single lease agreement and previously occupied by the us. Most recently, each of these premises has been subleased to various operators. The lease agreement expired pursuant to its terms on June 30, 2006. The plaintiffs claimed in their lawsuit unspecified damages allegedly owing for certain repair and maintenance expenses on the premises, for the replacement of certain equipment, for diminution of property value, and for loss of rental income, as well as interest and costs. On February 12, 2008, this case came before the Court for trial. On February 20, 2008, a 12 member jury returned a plaintiffs’ verdict in the amount of $689,526. On February 29, 2008, the Circuit Court of Pulaski County Arkansas entered judgment in the case captioned Parks Land Company, et al. v. Western Sizzlin Corporation, et al. against the us in the amount of $689,666 plus plaintiff’s legal costs. We have currently added to the reserve as a result of the verdict and as of December 31, 2007 have accrued $900,000. Of this amount, $275,000 had been accrued in 2006. We disagree with the result of the trial and have filed post-trial motions, seeking new trial or judgment notwithstanding the verdict. In the event the court denies the post-judgment relief, we will consider an appeal. There can be no assurance that ultimate settlement of this case will not be more than $900,000. We are also from time to time a party to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine matters incidental to our business. While we believe that the ultimate outcome of these matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on our financial position, we cannot assure that an adverse outcome on any of these matters would not, in fact, materially impact our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We are involved in an unsolicited tender offer to acquire approximately 2,700,000 of the outstanding shares of ITEX Corporation. We are seeking to acquire up to 2,700,000 shares of ITEX common stock in the offer for investment purposes. Following the consummation of the offer, we intend to evaluate our investment in the ITEX common stock on a continual basis and may, from time to time, communicate with ITEX management, members of ITEX’s board of directors and other stockholders of ITEX. Following the consummation of the offer, we may, from time to time, acquire additional shares of ITEX common stock, dispose of shares of ITEX common stock or formulate other purposes, plans or proposals regarding ITEX or the ITEX common stock, to the extent deemed advisable in light of its general investment policies, market conditions or other factors. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the offer. In particular, we estimate that we will issue approximately 178,821 shares of our common stock in connection with the offer. The increase in the number of shares of our common stock issued may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our common stock Please refer to the “Risk Factors” section of the prospectus portion of the registration statement on Form S-4 (as amended), Registration No. 333-148349 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, for the details on the risks associated with this tender offer. The pertinent pages of the prospectus are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 