Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a degree of risk. These risks should be considered carefully with the uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other filings that we make form time to time with the SEC, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition, results or operations, or cash flows. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are dependent on key personnel. We believe that our success depends in part on the services of Sardar Biglari, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Robyn B. Mabe, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Biglari or Mrs. Mabe could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Qualified replacements may not be available in a timely manner, if at all. Our continued growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. Mr. Biglari, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, holds the same offices at another public company. In addition to his positions with our Company, Mr. Biglari also serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Steak ‘n Shake Company, an NYSE listed firm, and spends a substantial amount of his time at that company. Our stock price could be volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price may result from general market conditions, perceived changes in the underlying characteristics of our business, and the relative price of competing investments. The volume of trading in the market for our common stock is typically very limited. As a consequence, liquidating your investment could cause a decline in our stock price. Because of changes in the balance of buy and sell orders, notwithstanding other relevant factors, the price of our common stock can fluctuate for reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. A substantial amount of our common stock is controlled by one person. Sardar Biglari, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns or exercises voting control over approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. Further details on Mr. Biglari’s holdings are reflected in the Schedule 13D, as amended, which he has filed with the SEC. Through his exercise of voting control over such a substantial amount of our common stock, Mr. Biglari in a position to significantly influence all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders including the election of directors. Also, a sale of a substantial number of these shares in the public market could materially reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Western Properties, Inc. serves as the general partner of a private investment limited partnership, Western Real Estate, L.P., which had no limited partners in 2008 but intends to operate as a private real estate investment partnership. In December 2007, we formed Western Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Western Properties is the general partner of Western Real Estate, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership also formed in December 2007. There were no limited partners in the partnership at December 31, 2008 and the sole activity of these entities has been the purchase in 2007 by the limited partnership of 23 acres of real property in Bexar County, Texas from an unaffiliated third party. It is the intention of Western Real Estate, L.P., to operate as a private limited partnership investing in real estate, however, this venture is in the formative stages and there is no guarantee that it will be successful. We are dependent on one key person for investment and capital allocation decisions. Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for us and our subsidiaries, including Western Acquisitions, by Sardar Biglari, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President. Although there are limitations on Mr. Biglari’s authority at the parent company level and our Board of Directors monitors his investment and capital allocation decisions, there is risk in having concentrated decision-making authority. Mr. Biglari’s 6 Table of Contents decisions could either independently or in the aggregate involve amounts that are material to our business. Additionally, if for any reason the services of Mr. Biglari were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, since he is singularly responsible for these decisions. Our investments in marketable securities, including through Western Acquisitions L.P., are highly concentrated. Our investments in marketable securities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P., are highly concentrated. A decline in the market value of these investments may result in a decrease in our stock price. Our investment activities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P., may involve the purchase of securities on margin. We may purchase securities on margin in connection with our investment activities, including through Western Acquisitions, L.P. If we do so, a significant decrease in the value of the securities that collateralize the margin line of credit could result in a margin call. If we do not have sufficient cash available from other sources in the event of a margin call, we may be required to sell those securities at a time when we would prefer not to sell them. Our investment activities could require registration as an Investment Company. While we have historically been principally engaged in franchising and operating restaurants, our recent investment activities could bring us within the definition of an “investment company” and require us to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Board of Directors has adopted a policy requiring management to restrict the Company’s operations and investment activities to avoid becoming an investment company, until and unless the Board approves otherwise. We do not intend to change our principal business and the Board has not approved otherwise. Although we do not presently intend to change its principal business, and the Board has not approved any such change, we have expanded our investment activities, and may decide in the future to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Also, under certain circumstances, if we are successful in investment activities, then we may inadvertently fall within the definition of an investment company, in which event we may be required to register as an investment company. Notwithstanding our Board policy, if our investment activities inadvertently result in our being determined to be an investment company and we fail to register as an investment company, we might be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and third parties could seek rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period that we were an unregistered investment company, subject to equitable considerations set forth in the Investment Company Act. In addition, we might be subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought against us by the SEC. If we decide to register as an investment company, then we would become subject to various provisions of the Investment Company Act and the regulations adopted under such Act, which are very extensive and could adversely affect our operations. For example, we might be prohibited from entering into or continuing transactions with certain of our affiliates. We are experiencing a decline in our franchise base. We have experienced steady declines in our existing franchise base for the past several years. Since January 1, 2005, we had a total of 44 closures and currently have a total of 109 franchised restaurants. Of the 44 closed restaurants the majority were Western Sizzlin brand restaurants. The average annual sales of our franchised restaurants are approximately $1.6 million. The average annual sales of the closed restaurants were $1.0 million or less. The closures of franchised restaurants were caused by their operating at a competitive disadvantage which stemmed from such factors as location, facility, lack of reinvestment and mismanagement, among others factors. There is no guarantee that these reasons will be eliminated. Moreover, these closures occurred during generally favorable economic conditions and it is possible that this trend could accelerate given the present economic downturn. We are striving to reverse this trend by revitalizing our franchise models. However, maintaining and growing our existing franchise base is dependent upon many of the same factors that apply to our Company-owned restaurants. Sometimes the challenges of operating profitable restaurants prove to be more difficult for our franchisees. For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to operate their restaurants. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in doing so and as a result our franchise base may continue to decline regardless of the economic environment. Due to our smaller restaurant base and geographic concentration, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by the negative performance of, or the decision to close, a small number of restaurants. 7 Table of Contents Our restaurant base, both franchised and Company-owned, is smaller and less geographically diverse than many other restaurant chains. Accordingly, poor operating results in one or more of our markets or the decision to close even a relatively small number of underperforming restaurants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation, or cash flows. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive environment. Our restaurants, both franchised and Company-owned, operate in a highly competitive industry comprised of a large number of restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as locally-owned, independent restaurants. Price, restaurant location, food quality, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition. The competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population and traffic patterns and economic conditions. New competitors may emerge at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future. Competition may have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. The inability of our franchisees to operate profitable restaurants may negatively impact our financial performance. Under the agreements we have with our franchisees, we collect royalties and other fees from our franchisees. As a result, the ability of our franchisees to generate profits and pay royalties to us impacts our overall profitability and brand recognition. We are highly dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. We are extremely dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we would suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting and retaining replacement personnel. We could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new store openings due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater expense to recruit and train them. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be impacted by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. An increase in the minimum wage may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. We are dependent upon the timely delivery of fresh ingredients. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. Historically, when operating expenses increased due to inflation or increases in food costs, we generally have been able to offset these higher costs by increasing our menu prices. We may not be able to recover increased costs in the future because competition may limit or even prohibit such future increases. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use the existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, our rights to our trademarks could be challenged by third parties or our use of the trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition, adversely affecting our profitability. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional, and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles or a worsening economy, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in 8 Table of Contents other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to offset inflation through periodic menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, we may not be able to completely do so. This may negatively affect our results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. There has been substantial uncertainty and disruption in the capital and credit markets over the past twelve months. Recently the uncertainty and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. This uncertainty could negatively impact the Company and cause fluctuation in the Company’s stock price. Additionally, these conditions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, including the future operating results of the Company’s restaurants and the value of the Company’s investments. The Company is vulnerable to changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns that could harm its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The restaurant industry has been affected by the current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, rising unemployment and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy have reduced and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and operating results. As a result, decreased cash flow generated by our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macro economic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing for our franchisees’ operations, and could impact our vendors’ ability to meet our supply requirements. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Furthermore, the Company could experience reduced customer traffic or limitations on the prices it can charge for its products, either of which could reduce the Company’s sales and profit margins and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in guest preferences for casual dining styles or menu items could adversely affect our financial performance. Changing guest preferences, tastes, and dietary habits can adversely impact our business and financial performance. Our restaurant models offer a varied entrees, side dishes, salads and desserts. Our continued success depends, in part, on the popularity of our product offerings and casual style of dining. A change in guest preferences away from this style or our offerings in favor of other dining styles or offerings may have an adverse impact on our business. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation relating to food-borne illness, employment and other matters that could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. While the risk of food-borne illness is real, whether it results from improper operations, new diseases or from chemicals in certain food products, the risk would generally only affect a limited number of our restaurants. As soon as any food issues became known to us, those food items that were potentially at risk would be no longer served to customers. While the risk of food-borne illness or injury would likely be localized, the risk of the adverse publicity that might result from such an incident is more generalized and accordingly much greater. The general public’s response to adverse publicity relating to our restaurant brands could materially adversely affect a significant number of our restaurants. This could be true whether the allegations underlying the adverse publicity are valid or whether we are liable. Furthermore, more generalized health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken due to reported incidents of diseases such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“mad cow disease”) or Avian Influenza (“bird flu”) could lead to changes in customer preferences, reduce consumption of our products and adversely affect our financial performance. These events could also reduce the available supply of beef or chicken or significantly raise the prices of beef or chicken. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are regulated by the federal and state government. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites. Those are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and building codes. Federal and state laws govern our relationships with employees, including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, employment tax rates, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and citizenship requirements. Federal and state laws prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the American with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business. These could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Adverse weather conditions or losses due to casualties such as fire could negatively impact our financial performance. Although we maintain, and require our franchisees to maintain, property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes, fire and other acts of God can adversely impact our sales in several ways. For example, severe weather typically discourages potential customers from dining out. In addition, a restaurant that is damaged by a natural disaster can be inoperable for a significant amount of time due to either physical damage or to a shortage of employees resulting from a relocation of the general population. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. In September 2006, the Company was served with a lawsuit filed in the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas, captioned Parks Land Company, LLP, et al. v. Western Sizzlin Corporation, et al. The plaintiffs are owners/landlords of four restaurant premises located in the Little Rock, Arkansas metropolitan area which had been leased pursuant to a single ten year lease agreement. The Company occupied these locations for a period of time, but before the end of the lease, subleased each of these premises to various operators. The ten year lease agreement expired on June 30, 2006. In the lawsuit the plaintiffs sought recovery of alleged damages for certain repair and maintenance expenses on the premises, for the replacement of certain equipment, for diminution of property value, and for loss of rental income, as well as interest and costs. The case was tried to a 12 person jury in Little Rock, starting February 12, 2008. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs on February 20, 2008, in the amount of $689,526. On February 29, 2008, the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas entered judgment on the jury’s verdict in the case against the Company in the amount of $689,666 plus plaintiff’s legal costs. The Company posted a bond to secure the judgment and stay collection pending the appeal of the verdict. The appeal has now been fully briefed by both sides. A decision from the Arkansas Court of Appeals is expected by June 2009. If the appellate court affirms the judgment against the Company, the amount due the plaintiffs would include interest accrued on the judgment from February 29, 2008, through the period of the decision on appeal. This additional amount is not expected to exceed $70,000. If the verdict is affirmed, the Plaintiffs will renew their efforts to have the trial court award Plaintiffs their attorneys’ fees. To date, the court has declined to make any award of fees. There has been no change in the Company’s loss contingency accrual of $900,000 since December 31, 2007. We are also from time to time a party to various other legal actions which are ordinary routine matters incidental to our business. While we believe that the ultimate outcome of these matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material impact on our financial position, we cannot assure that an adverse outcome on any of these matters would not, in fact, materially impact our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 