ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, any of which could negatively affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our business, operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends for future periods. If our technology is not accepted, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. Our future success depends on the growing use and acceptance of TV tuner products, video products for PCs and internet based video technology. The market for these products and technology is still evolving, and may not develop to the extent necessary to enable us to further expand our business. We have invested, and continue to invest, significant time and resources in the development of new products for this market. Our: · dependence on sales of TV tuner products, video recording products for the PC and internet based video technology · lack of market diversification · concentration on the North American and European market for the majority of our sales · potential inability to remain ahead of the development of competing technologies could each have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if we are unable to address any of the factors listed above. We rely upon sales of a small number of product lines, and the failure of any one product line to be successful in the market could substantially reduce our sales. We currently rely upon sales from our existing product lines to generate our sales. While we continue to develop additional products within these and other product lines, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Consequently, if the existing or future products are not successful, sales could decline substantially, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely heavily on the success of retailers, dealers and PC manufacturers to market, sell and distribute our products. If these channels are not effective in distributing our products, our sales could be reduced. These retailers, dealers and PC manufacturers may not effectively promote or market our products or they may experience financial difficulties and even close operations. Our sales channels are not contractually obligated to sell our products, and they typically sell on an “as needed” basis. Therefore, they may, at any time: · refuse to promote our products · discontinue the use of our products in favor of a competitor's product Also, with a distribution channel standing between us and the actual end user, we may not be able to accurately gauge current demand and anticipate future demand for our products. For example, retailers, dealers and PC manufacturers may place large initial orders for a new product just to keep their stores and products stocked with the newest TV tuners and not because there is a significant demand for them. 16 We operate in a highly competitive market, and many of our competitors have much greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to remain competitive. Our business is subject to significant competition. Competition exists from larger companies that possess substantially greater technical, financial, human, sales and marketing resources than we do. The dynamics of competition in this market involve short product life cycles, declining selling prices, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. We compete against companies such as TiVo Inc. and ATI Technologies Inc., a division of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., and a number of Asian and European companies. Our internet based video technology products compete in the consumer electronics market, where competition comes from Sony Corporation, Toshiba Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Sling Media Inc. and others. We believe that competition from new entrants will increase as the market for digital video in a PC expands. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increased competition in the future. Such increased competition may have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully market our products. Competition is expected to remain intense and, as a result, we may lose some of our market share to our competitors. Further, we believe that the market for our products will continue to be price competitive and thus we could continue to experience lower selling prices, lower gross profit margins and reduced profitability levels for such products than in the past Rapid technological changes and short product life cycles in our industry and the availability of new products, services and technologies could harm our business. The technology underlying our products and other products in the computer industry, in general, is subject to rapid change, including the potential introduction of new types of products, services and technologies, which may have a material adverse impact upon our business, operating results and financial condition. The pervasive availability of new products, services (including internet services) and technologies may have a material adverse impact upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We will need to maintain an ongoing research and development program, and our potential future success, of which there can be no assurances, will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to technological advances by developing and introducing new products, successfully incorporating such advances in existing products, and obtaining licenses, patents, or other proprietary technologies to be used in connection with new or existing products. We expended approximately $4,258,000 and $4,459,000 for research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. There can be no assurance that our research and development will be successful or that we will be able to foresee and respond to such advances in technological developments and to successfully develop additional products. Additionally, there can be no assurances that the development of technologies, services or products by competitors will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. If TV or video capabilities are included in PCs or in operating systems, it could result in a reduction in the demand for add-on TV and video devices. Although we believe that our software is a competitive strength, as operating systems such as Windows move to integrate and standardize software support for video capabilities, we will be challenged to further differentiate our products. Our operating results and ability to retain our market share are also dependent on continued growth in the underlying markets for PC, TV and video products. We may not be able to timely adopt emerging industry standards, which may make our products unacceptable to potential customers, delay our product introductions or increase our costs. Our products must comply with a number of current industry standards and practices established by various international bodies. Failure to comply with evolving standards, including video compression standards, TV transmission standards, and PC interface standards, will limit acceptance of our products by the market. If new standards are adopted in the industry, we will be required to adopt those standards in our products. It may take a significant amount of time to develop and design products incorporating these new standards, and we may not succeed in doing so. We may also become dependent upon products developed by third parties and have to pay royalty fees, which may be substantial, to the developers of the technology that constitutes the newly adopted standards. 17 We are substantially dependent upon foreign markets for sales of our products, primarily the European market, and adverse changes in these markets could reduce our sales. Our future performance will likely be dependent, in large part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in the European markets, where a large portion of our current and potential customers are located. Our ability to compete in these markets will depend on many factors, including: · the economic conditions in these regions · the value of the euro versus the U.S. dollar · the stability of the political environment in these regions · adverse changes in the relationships between major countries in these regions · the state of trade relations among these regions and the United States · restrictions on trade in these regions · the imposition or changing of tariffs by the countries in these regions on products of the type that we sell · changes in the regulatory environment in these regions · export restrictions and export license requirements · restrictions on the export of critical technology · our ability to develop products that meet the varied technical requirements of customers in each of these regions · our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our foreign customers and distributors · changes in freight rates · our ability to enforce agreements and other rights in the countries in these regions · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations · difficulties assessing new and existing international markets and credit risks · potential insolvency of international customers and difficulty in collecting accounts If we are unable to address any of these factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are heavily dependent upon foreign manufacturing facilities for our products, primarily facilities in Asia, which exposes us to additional risks. The majority of our products are built at contract manufacturing facilities in Asia. Our ability to successfully build products at overseas locations will depend on many factors, including: · the economic conditions in these regions · the acceptance of the U.S. dollar as the currency to purchase manufactured products · the stability of the political environment in these regions · adverse changes in the relationships between major countries in these regions · the state of trade relations among these regions and the United States · restrictions on trade in these regions · the imposition or changing of tariffs by the countries in these regions on products of the type that we sell · changes in the regulatory environment in these regions · import restrictions and import license requirements · our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our foreign manufacturers · changes in freight rates · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations · potential insolvency of vendors and difficulty in obtaining materials If we are unable to address any of these factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Foreign currency exchange fluctuations could adversely affect our results. For the two fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, at least 37% of our sales were generated by our European subsidiary and were invoiced and collected in local currency, which was primarily the Euro. On the supply side, since we predominantly deal with North American and Asian suppliers and contract manufacturers, approximately 95% of our inventory required to support our European sales are purchased and paid in U.S. Dollars. 18 The combination of sales billed in Euros supported by inventory purchased in U.S. Dollars results in an absence of a natural local currency hedge. Consequently, our financial results are subject to market risks resulting from the fluctuations in the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rates. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may be unable to develop new products that meet customer requirements in a timely manner. Our success is dependent on our ability to continue to introduce new products with advanced features, functionality and performance that our customers demand. We may not be able to introduce new products on a timely basis, that are accepted by the market, and that sell in quantities sufficient to make the products viable for the long-term. Sales of new products may negatively impact sales of existing products. In addition, we may have difficulty establishing our products' presence in markets where they do not currently have significant brand recognition. We may experience volatile gross profit margins. Over the last two fiscal years our gross profit margins have ranged from a low of 25.57% to a high of 33.80% due to the following factors, among others: · sales mix of lower margin products · changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro · allowances for excess inventory · increases in costs charged by contract manufacturers · increases in duty and tariff rates · increases in shipping costs · lower average selling prices · increases in material acquisition costs and · different gross margins for like products in different markets As margins may decline, our profitability will be more dependent upon effective cost management controls. There can be no assurances that such cost and management controls can be implemented and maintained, and if implemented, that they will be successful. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, downward pricing pressure on our products, which could substantially impair our operating performance. We are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, downward pricing pressure on our products. As a result, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, declining average sales prices for our products. Increases in the number of units that we are able to sell and reductions in per unit costs may not occur, and if they occur, they may not be sufficient to offset reductions in per unit sales prices, in which case our net income would be reduced and we could incur losses. Since we typically negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may need to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, these cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, any current or future price reduction commitments and our inability to respond to increased price competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our cost reduction and operational efficiency programs may not achieve the intended results Changing economic and business conditions may dictate that we undertake a plan of cost and operational efficiency reductions. We cannot be certain that these programs will achieve their intended results. Additionally, these programs may be misplaced or insufficient for purposes of positioning us for future growth, in which case our long-term competitive position may suffer. Failure of these programs, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent upon contract manufacturers for our production. If these manufacturers do not meet our requirements, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. During fiscal 2011, we subcontracted the manufacturing and assembly of our products to six independent third parties at facilities in various Asian countries. 19 Relying on subcontractors involves a number of significant risks, including: · loss of control over the manufacturing process · potential absence of adequate production capacity · potential delays in production lead times · unavailability of certain process technologies · reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs, and · unexpected increases in component costs We may need to hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential manufacturing disruptions. If our significant subcontractors become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these products in required volumes, we will have to identify qualified alternate subcontractors. Additional qualified subcontractors may not be available, or may not be available on a timely or cost competitive basis. Any interruption in the supply of, or increase in the cost of, the products manufactured by third party subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent upon single or limited source suppliers for our components and assembled products. If these suppliers do not meet the demand, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. If the supply of a key component or assembled product, such as the HD-PVR or a PCTV product, were to be delayed or curtailed, or in the event a key manufacturing or sole vendor delays shipment of such components or completed products, our ability to ship products in desired quantities and in a timely manner would be adversely affected. Our business, operating results and financial condition could also be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source or, if possible, to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. We attempt to mitigate these potential risks by working closely with our key suppliers on product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. We are also seeking out alternative sources for assembled products, making us less dependent on a single or limited source. We may need to hold more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. This could lead to an increase in the costs of manufacturing or assembling our products. If any single or limited source supplier becomes unable or unwilling to continue to supply these components or assembled products in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements or redesign our products with different components. Additional sources may not be available, or product redesign may not be feasible on a timely basis. Any interruption in the supply of or increase in the cost of the components and assembled products provided by single or limited source suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may incur excessive expenses if we are unable to accurately forecast sales of our products. We generally ship products within one to four weeks after receipt of orders. Therefore, our sales backlog is typically minimal. Accordingly, our expectations of future net sales and our product manufacturing and materials planning are based largely on our own estimates of future demand and not on firm customer orders. If we obtain orders in excess of our internal forecasts, we may be unable to timely increase production to meet demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our net sales do not meet expectations, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected, we may be burdened with excess inventory, and we may be subject to excess costs or inventory write-offs. 20 We may experience a reduction in sales if we are unable to respond quickly to changes in the market for our products. Our net sales can be affected by changes in the quantity of products that our retail, distributor and PC manufacturer customers maintain in their inventories. We may be directly and rapidly affected by changes in the market, including the impact of any slowdown or rapid increase in end user demand. Despite efforts to reduce distribution channel inventory exposure, retailers, distribution partners and PC manufacturer customers may still choose to alter their inventory levels, which could cause a reduction in our net sales; this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may accumulate inventory to minimize the impact of shortages from manufacturers and suppliers, which may result in obsolete inventory that we may need to write off resulting in losses. Managing our inventory is complicated by fluctuations in the demand for our products as well as the issues of using contract manufacturers and procuring components from suppliers mentioned above. As we must plan to have sufficient quantities of products available to satisfy our customers' demands, we sometimes accumulate inventory for a period of time to minimize the impact of possible insufficient capacity or availability of components from our manufacturers and suppliers. Although we expect to sell the inventory within a short period of time, products may remain in inventory for extended periods of time and may become obsolete because of the passage of time and the introduction of new products or new components within existing products. In these situations, we would be required to write off obsolete inventory which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need financing, and may not be able to raise financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could increase our costs and limit our ability to grow and operate. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our long term expansion plans, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to unanticipated requirements. We currently do not have a working capital line of credit in place. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure or inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms could require us to limit our plans for expansion, incur indebtedness that has high rates of interest or substantial restrictive covenants, issue equity securities that will dilute existing stockholders’ holdings or discontinue a portion of our operations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become involved in costly intellectual property disputes. With the proliferation of new products and rapidly changing technology, there is a significant volume of patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. There are a number of companies that hold patents for various aspects of the technologies incorporated in some of the PC and TV industries' standards. Given the nature of our products and development efforts, there are risks that claims associated with such patents or intellectual property rights could be asserted by third parties against us. We expect that parties seeking to gain competitive advantages will increase their efforts to enforce any patent or intellectual property rights that they may have. The holders of patents from which we may have not obtained licenses may take the position that it is required to obtain a license from them. If a patent holder refuses to offer such a license or offers such a license on terms unacceptable to us, there is a risk of incurring substantial litigation or settlement costs regardless of the merits of the allegations, or which party eventually prevails. If we do not prevail in a litigation suit, we may be required to pay significant damages and/or to cease sales and production of infringing products and accordingly, may incur significant defense costs. Additionally, we may need to attempt to design around a given technology, although there can be no assurances that this would be possible or economical. We currently use technology licensed from third parties in certain products. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected by a number of factors relating to these third-party technologies, including: · failure by a licensor to accurately develop, timely introduce, promote or support the technology · delays in shipment of products · excess customer support or product return costs due to problems with licensed technology · termination of our relationship with such licensors 21 We may be unable to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property through patent, copyright, trademark and other means of protection. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our intellectual property rights may be misappropriated by others, invalidated or challenged, and our competitors could duplicate our technology or may otherwise limit any competitive technological advantage we may have. Due to the rapid pace of technological change, we believe our success is likely to depend more upon continued innovation, technical expertise, marketing skills and customer support and service rather than upon legal protection of our proprietary rights. However, we intend to aggressively assert our intellectual property rights when necessary. Even though we typically develop our products independently, our success, of which there can be no assurances, will depend, in a large part, on our ability to innovate, obtain or license patents, protect trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, and draw upon our proprietary technology without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We maintain copyrights on our designs and software programs, but currently we have no patent on the WinTV® board as we believe that such technology cannot be patented. We have no patents issued or pending that relate to our technology. We are subject to a number of risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the following: · the means by which we seek to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent others from misappropriating our technology or from independently developing or selling technology or products with features based on or similar to our products · our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than is provided under U.S. laws · our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, violated or circumvented and may not provide us with any competitive advantage We may not be able to attract and retain qualified managerial and other skilled personnel. Our success, of which there can be no assurances, depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. Our success, of which there can be no assurances, is dependent on our ability to manage effectively the enhancement and introduction of existing and new products and the marketing of such products. We are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified managers, engineers and salespersons. The loss of the services of a significant number of engineers or sales people or one or more senior officers or managers could be disruptive to product development efforts or business relationships and could seriously harm our business. We depend on a limited number of key personnel, and the loss of any of their services could adversely affect our future growth and profitability and could substantially interfere with our operations. Our products are complex and our market is evolving. The success of our business depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key officers or employees could adversely affect our future growth and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our dependence upon our key officers and employees is increased by the fact that they are responsible for our sales and marketing efforts as well as our overall operations. We do not have key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees other than Mr. Plotkin, our President, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. The insurance coverage that we have on him may be insufficient to compensate us for the loss of his services. Our products could contain defects, which could result in delays in recognition of sales, loss of sales, loss of market share, or failure to achieve market acceptance, or claims against us. We develop complex products for TV and video processing. Despite testing by our engineers, subcontractors and customers, errors may be found in existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in recognition of sales, loss of sales, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance or substantial damage to our reputation. We could be subject to material claims by customers, and may need to incur substantial expenses to correct any product defects. We do not have product liability insurance to protect against losses caused by defects in our products, and we also do not have "errors and omissions" insurance. As a result, any payments that we may need to make to satisfy our customers may be substantial and may result in a substantial charge to earnings. 22 We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, which will make predicting our future results difficult. Historically, our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly from period to period, and we expect that our results will continue to do so. These fluctuations result from a variety of factors, including: · market acceptance of our products · changes in order flow from our customers, and their inability to forecast their needs accurately · the timing of our new product announcements and of announcements by our competitors · increased competition, including changes in pricing by us and our competitors · delays in deliveries from our limited number of suppliers and subcontractors · difficulty in implementing effective cost management constraints · market and economic conditions As our sales are primarily to the consumer market, we have experienced certain seasonal revenue trends. Our peak sales quarter, due to holiday season sales of computer equipment, is typically our first fiscal quarter (October to December), followed by our second fiscal quarter (January to March). In addition, our international sales, mostly in the European market, were 37% and 54% of sales for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our fiscal fourth quarter sales (July to September) can be potentially impacted by the reduction of activity experienced in Europe during the July and August summer holiday period. Accordingly, any sales or net income in any particular period may be lower than the sales and net income in a preceding or comparable period. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in future periods. Failure to meet such expectations, should such an event occur, will likely cause our share price to decline. Our Common Stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to a high degree of volatility. Numerous factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock, including: · general conditions in the PC and TV industries · product pricing · new product introductions · market growth forecasts · technological innovations · mergers and acquisitions · announcements of quarterly operating results · overall U.S. and international economic and market conditions and economic health · stability of the U.S. and international securities markets In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility and broad market fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of securities issued by many high technology companies in many cases for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. The price of our Common Stock has experienced volatility not necessarily related to our performance. We may not be able to maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing under the NASDAQ Listing Rules or we may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ listing. On October 6, 2009, NASDAQ notified us that we were subject to delisting based on our failure to timely hold our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. On December 9, 2009, we held our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and on December 10, 2009, a NASDAQ Hearings Panel rendered its determination to continue our listing. 23 On November 18, 2009, we received a notice from NASDAQ indicating that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market, as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (the "Rule"). In accordance with NASDAQ Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided 180 calendar days, or until May 17, 2010, to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement. On May 24, 2010, we received written notification (the "May 24 Notice") from NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement. The May 24 Notice stated that, as a result of the our having satisfied the $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price requirement for the ten consecutive business days ending on May 21, 2010, we had regained compliance with the Rule and that this matter was now closed. On January 3, 2011 we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market (as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(A)) because our stockholders’ equity was below The Nasdaq Global Market minimum stockholders’ equity listing requirement of $10,000,000. The Nasdaq Letter also indicated that we did not meet the continued listing requirements for The Nasdaq Global Market under its alternative standards. Subsequent to our receipt of the Nasdaq Letter, we sent a letter to Nasdaq describing our plan to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market. The plan was not accepted by Nasdaq. We subsequently applied to transfer the listing of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market in order to conform to Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. On February 28, 2011, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that Nasdaq had approved our application to list our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq Letter stated that the listing of our common stock would be transferred to The Nasdaq Capital Market from The Nasdaq Global Market at the opening of business on Thursday, March 3, 2011. No assurances can be provided that we will be able to achieve or maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing under the NASDAQ Listing Rules (including with respect to, among others things, minimum bid price and stockholders’ equity) or that we will maintain our NASDAQ listing. We may not be able to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Our Common Stock trades on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol HAUP. Prior to March 3, 2011 our Common Stock traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our Common Stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Captial Market. If our securities are delisted by NASDAQ, then the market liquidity for such securities would likely be negatively affected, which may make it more difficult for holders to sell such securities in the open market, and we could face additional difficulty raising capital necessary for our continued operation. Investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. Our Amended and Restated By-Laws may have anti-takeover effects, limiting the ability of outside stockholders to seek control of management, and any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay may be reduced and any merger or takeover may be delayed. Effective August 16, 2001, the Board of Directors unanimously approved Amended and Restated By-Laws for us (the “By-Laws”). The By-Laws do not permit stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and consequently, an expensive proxy contest cannot occur other than in connection with the annual meeting of stockholders. The By-Laws also impose strict requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of prospective board members other than those nominated by or at the discretion of the Board of Directors. These amendments may collectively or individually impact a person’s decision to purchase voting securities in our company and may have anti-takeover effects in that any merger or takeover may be delayed. Accordingly, any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay may be reduced. We have paid no dividends and none are anticipated. We have never paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not contemplate or anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. It is currently anticipated that earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of the business. In addition, the Note contains restrictions on the payment of dividends, among other things. 24 We may not be able to effectively integrate businesses or assets that we acquire. We may identify and pursue acquisitions of complementary companies and strategic assets, such as customer bases, products and technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. If any such opportunity involves the acquisition of a business, we cannot be certain that: · we will successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business with our own · all the benefits expected from such integration will be realized · management's attention will not be diverted or divided, to the detriment of current operations · amortization of acquired intangible assets will not have a negative effect on operating results or other aspects of our business · delays or unexpected costs related to the acquisition will not have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition · customer dissatisfaction with, or performance problems at, an acquired company will not have an adverse effect on our reputation · respective operations, management and personnel will be compatible. In most cases, acquisitions will be consummated without seeking and obtaining stockholder approval, in which case stockholders will not have an opportunity to consider and vote upon the merits of such an acquisition. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess such risks. We have a history of operating losses and there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. We incurred losses from continuing operations for the last four fiscal years. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we put into place an expense reduction plan. While we believe that with the proper execution of our business and operating plan, our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2011 and our internally generated cash will provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our capital needs for the next twelve months, we must ultimately remain profitable or obtain financing to be able to meet our future cash flow requirements, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Inflation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition While inflation has not had a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition in the past, in the event that the inflation rate increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset the effects of inflation through price increases to our customers, without experiencing a reduction in the demand for our products; or that inflation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 