Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our products are subject to extensive United States federal and state and international safety, environmental and other government regulation that may require us to incur expenses or modify product offerings in order to maintain compliance with the actions of regulators and could decrease the demand for our products. Our products are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to safety, environmental and other regulations promulgated by the United States federal government and individual states as well as international regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, increased expenses to modify our products and harm to our reputation, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, future regulations could require additional safety standards or emission reductions that would require additional expenses and/or modification of product offerings in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. Our products are also subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use or manner of use during certain hours and locations, and these laws and regulations could decrease the popularity and sales of our products. We continue to monitor regulatory activities in conjunction with industry associations and support balanced and appropriate programs that educate the product user on safe use of our products and how to protect the environment. A significant adverse determination in any material product liability claim against us could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The manufacture, sale and usage of our products expose us to significant risks associated with product liability claims. If our products are defective or used incorrectly by our customers, bodily injury, property damage or other injury, including death, may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us or adversely affect our brand image or reputation. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. Because of the high cost of product liability insurance premiums and the historically insignificant amount of product liability claims paid by us, we were self-insured from 1985 to 1996 and from 2002 to 2012. From 1996 to 2002, and beginning again in 2012, we purchased excess insurance coverage for catastrophic product liability claims for incidents occurring subsequent to the policy date that exceeded our self-insured retention levels. The estimated costs resulting from any losses are charged to expense when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably determinable. We had a product liability reserve accrued on our balance sheet of $17.1 million at December 31, 2013 for the probable payment of pending claims related to product liability litigation associated with our products. We believe such accrual is adequate. We do not believe the outcome of any pending product liability litigation will have a material adverse effect on our operations. However, no assurance can be given that our historical claims record, which did not include ATVs prior to 1985, motorcycles and side-by-side vehicles prior to 1998, and SVs prior to 2011, will not change or that material product liability claims against us will not be made in the future. Adverse determination of material product liability claims made against us would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Significant product repair and/or replacement due to product warranty claims or product recalls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We provide a limited warranty for ORVs for a period of six months, for a period of one year for our snowmobiles and motorcycles and two years for SVs. We may provide longer warranties related to certain promotional programs, as well as longer warranties in certain geographical markets as determined by local regulations and market conditions. We also provide a limited emission warranty for certain emission-related parts in our ORVs, snowmobiles, and motorcycles as required by the EPA and CARB. Although we employ quality control procedures, sometimes a product is distributed that needs repair or replacement. Our standard warranties require us or our dealers to repair or replace defective products during such warranty periods at no cost to the consumer. Historically, product recalls have been administered through our dealers and distributors. The repair and replacement costs we could incur in connection with a recall could adversely affect our business. In addition, product recalls could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. 14Table of ContentsChanging weather conditions may reduce demand and negatively impact net sales and production of certain of our products. Lack of snowfall in any year in any particular geographic region may adversely affect snowmobile retail sales and related PG&A sales in that region. Additionally, to the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our sales may be affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced. There is no assurance that weather conditions or natural disasters could not have a material effect on our sales, production capability or component supply continuity for any of our products. We face intense competition in all product lines, including from some competitors that have greater financial and marketing resources. Failure to compete effectively against competitors would negatively impact our business and operating results. The snowmobile, off-road vehicle, motorcycle and small vehicle markets are highly competitive. Competition in such markets is based upon a number of factors, including price, quality, reliability, styling, product features and warranties. At the dealer level, competition is based on a number of factors, including sales and marketing support programs (such as financing and cooperative advertising). Certain of our competitors are more diversified and have financial and marketing resources that are substantially greater than ours, which allow these competitors to invest more heavily in intellectual property, product development and advertising. If we are not able to compete with new products or models of our competitors, our future business performance may be materially and adversely affected. Internationally, our products typically face more competition where foreign competitors manufacture and market products in their respective countries. This allows those competitors to sell products at lower prices, which could adversely affect our competitiveness. In addition, our products compete with many other recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers and, to a lesser extent, with other vehicles designed for utility applications. A failure to effectively compete with these other competitors could have a material adverse effect on our performance. Termination or interruption of informal supply arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have informal supply arrangements with many of our suppliers. In the event of a termination of the supply arrangement, there can be no assurance that alternate supply arrangements will be made on satisfactory terms. If we need to enter into supply arrangements on unsatisfactory terms, or if there are any delays to our supply arrangements, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and net earnings. The changing relationships of primarily the United States dollar to the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, the Euro, the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen and certain other foreign currencies have from time to time had a negative impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to these foreign currencies can adversely affect the price of our products in foreign markets, the costs we incur to import certain components for our products, and the translation of our foreign balance sheets. While we actively manage our exposure to fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates by entering into foreign exchange hedging contracts from time to time, these contracts hedge foreign currency denominated transactions and any change in the fair value of the contracts would be offset by changes in the underlying value of the transactions being hedged. Our business may be sensitive to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions, primarily in North America and Europe, that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Weakening of, and fluctuations in, economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, capital markets, tax rates, savings rates, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, the impacts of natural disasters and acts of terrorism and other matters, including the availability of consumer credit could reduce consumer spending or reduce consumer spending on powersports products. A general reduction in consumer spending or a reduction in consumer spending on powersports products could adversely affect our sales growth and profitability. In addition, we have a financial services partnership arrangement with a subsidiary of General Electric Company that requires us to repurchase products financed and repossessed by the partnership, subject to certain limitations. For calendar year 2013, our maximum aggregate repurchase obligation was approximately $97.9 million. If adverse changes to economic conditions result in increased defaults on the loans made by this financial services partnership, our repurchase obligation under the partnership arrangement could adversely affect our liquidity and harm our business. 15Table of ContentsFailure to establish and maintain the appropriate level of dealers and distributor relationships or weak economic conditions impacting those relationships may negatively impact our business and operating results. We distribute our products through numerous dealers and distributors and rely on them to retail our products to the end customers. Our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected if deterioration of economic or business conditions results in a weakening of the financial condition of a material number of our dealers and distributors. Additionally, weak demand for, or quality issues with, our products may cause dealers and distributors to voluntarily or involuntarily reduce or terminate their relationship with us. Further, if we fail to establish and maintain an appropriate level of dealers and distributors for each of our products, we may not obtain adequate market coverage for the desired level of retail sales of our products. We depend on suppliers, financing sources and other strategic partners who may be sensitive to economic conditions that could affect their businesses in a manner that adversely affects their relationship with us. We source component parts and raw materials through numerous suppliers and have relationships with a limited number of sources of product financing for our dealers and consumers. Our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected if deterioration of economic or business conditions results in a weakening of the financial condition of a material number of our suppliers or financing sources, or if uncertainty about the economy or the demand for our products causes these business partners to voluntarily or involuntarily reduce or terminate their relationship with us. Retail credit market deterioration and volatility may restrict the ability of our retail customers to finance the purchase of our products and adversely affect our income from financial services. We have arrangements with each of Capital One, Sheffield and GE Bank to make retail financing available to consumers who purchase our products in the United States. During 2013, consumers financed approximately 32 percent of the vehicles we sold in the United States through the Capital One revolving retail credit and Sheffield and GE Bank installment retail credit programs. Furthermore, some customers use financing from lenders who do not partner with us. There can be no assurance that retail financing will continue to be available in the same amounts and under the same terms that had been previously available to our customers. If retail financing is not available to customers on satisfactory terms, it is possible that our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We intend to grow our business through potential acquisitions, non-consolidating investments, alliances and new joint ventures and partnerships, which could be risky and could harm our business. One of our growth strategies is to drive growth in our businesses and accelerate opportunities to expand our global presence through targeted acquisitions, non-consolidating investments, alliances, and new joint ventures and partnerships that add value while considering our existing brands and product portfolio. The benefits of an acquisition, non-consolidating investment, new joint venture or partnership may take more time than expected to develop or integrate into our operations, and we cannot guarantee that acquisitions, non-consolidating investments, alliances, joint ventures or partnerships will in fact produce any benefits. In addition, acquisitions, non-consolidating investments, alliances, joint ventures and partnerships involve a number of risks, including: •diversion of management’s attention; •difficulties in integrating and assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, and synergies; •potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •adverse impact on overall profitability if acquired businesses or affiliates do not achieve the financial results projected in our valuation models; • reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in our leverage and debt service requirements to pay the acquisition purchase prices, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; •inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems, unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, and an inability to recover or manage such liabilities and costs; 16Table of Contents• incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges and impairment of significant amounts of goodwill, investments or other related assets that could adversely affect our operating results; •dilution to existing shareholders if our securities are issued as part of transaction consideration or to fund transaction consideration; and •inability to direct the management and policies of a joint venture, alliance, or partnership, where other participants may be able to take action contrary to our instructions or requests and against our policies and objectives. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable acquisition targets at acceptable prices, terms, and conditions, our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively. These risks could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. Any potential acquisition could impair our operating results, and any large acquisition could impair our financial condition, among other things. Increases in the cost of raw material, commodity and transportation costs and shortages of certain raw materials could negatively impact our business. The primary commodities used in manufacturing our products are aluminum, steel, petroleum-based resins and certain rare earth metals used in our charging systems, as well as diesel fuel to transport the products. Our profitability is affected by significant fluctuations in the prices of the raw materials and commodities we use in our products. We may not be able to pass along any price increases in our raw materials to our customers. As a result, an increase in the cost of raw materials, commodities, labor or other costs associated with the manufacturing of our products could increase our costs of sales and reduce our profitability. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products and may lead to costly litigation. We hold patents and trademarks relating to various aspects of our products, such as our patented “on demand” all-wheel drive, and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or trademarks or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the absence of enforceable patent or trademark protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, gain access to our trade secrets and know-how or diminish our brand through unauthorized use of our trademarks, all of which could adversely affect our business. Others may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Regardless of whether litigation relating to our intellectual property rights is successful, the litigation could significantly increase our costs and divert management’s attention from operation of our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs, possible damages and substantial uncertainty. Sixteen percent of our total sales are generated outside of North America, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of sales and profitability. We currently manufacture our products in the United States, Mexico, and France. We sell our products throughout the world and maintain sales and administration facilities in the United States, Canada, Switzerland and several other Western European countries, Australia, China, Brazil and India. Our primary distribution facilities are in Vermillion, South Dakota, Wilmington, Ohio, and Rigby, Idaho, which distribute PG&A products to our North American dealers and 17Table of Contentswe have various other locations around the world that distribute PG&A to our international dealers and distributors and one of our significant engine suppliers is located in Japan. Our total sales outside North America were 16 percent, 14 percent, and 16 percent of our total sales for fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. International markets have, and will continue to be, a focus for sales growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time we intend for international sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total sales. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions, could adversely affect such growth. In 2013, we began construction of a manufacturing facility in Europe. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention and financial resources. Some of the countries in which we manufacture and/or sell our products, or otherwise have an international presence, are to some degree subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: •increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and increases in infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, and information technology; •the imposition of additional United States and foreign governmental controls or regulations; •new or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; and the imposition of increases in costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade; •the imposition of United States and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit our continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; •international pricing pressures; •laws and business practices favoring local companies; •adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations; •longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and •multiple, changing, and often inconsistent enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health, and safety matters. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of total sales or one or more of the factors listed above may harm our business and operating results. Any material decrease in our international sales or profitability could also adversely impact our operating results. Additional tax expense or tax exposure could impact our financial performance.We are subject to income taxes and other business taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the earnings generated in these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, a change in our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of international affiliates and changes in tax laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.18Table of ContentsIf we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products and our business could suffer. One of our growth strategies is to develop innovative, customer-valued products to generate revenue growth. Our sales from new products in the past have represented a significant component of our sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our future sales. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products in the global markets in which we compete. Product development requires significant financial, technological, and other resources. While we expended $139.2 million, $127.4 million, and $105.6 million for research and development efforts in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, there can be no assurance that this level of investment in research and development will be sufficient to maintain our competitive advantage in product innovation, which could cause our business to suffer. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be more effective with more features and/or less expensive than our products, obtain better market acceptance, or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.We use many information technology systems and their underlying infrastructure to operate our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Recent acquisitions have resulted in additional decentralized systems which add to the complexity of our information technology infrastructure. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees or others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 19Table of Contents