Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Forward-Looking Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Tegal Risk Factors We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could further materially decrease the price of our common stock. We had net losses of ($1,429) and ($3,130), for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We used cash flows from operations of ($3,108) and ($74), in these respective years. Currently our operations include only Sequel Power, LLC which was formed to pursue utility scale projects in photovoltaic (PV) based energy production and a three person headquarters staff which is administering Tegal’s activities, including the evaluation of additional business opportunities for the Company. Sequel Power is generating losses by using the capital invested by Tegal for salaries and operating expenses needed to pursue various speculative projects in the United States, Latin America and the Middle East. None of the projects that Sequel Power is pursuing may come to fruition and Sequel Power may never generate any revenues or profits. If Sequel Power consumes all of the capital provided by Tegal, Sequel Power may be required to discontinue its operations and may cease to exist, in which case, the entire investment made by Tegal will be lost. Even if Sequel Power continues in operation, any losses which it incurs will be reflected in Tegal’s financial statements and contribute to Tegal’s losses. The administration of Tegal’s non-Sequel Power activities is currently also generating losses and will continue to do so until the Company establishes additional revenue and profit generating activities. Tegal may never find or establish another revenue or profit generating activity, in which case the losses will continue. Tegal may be forced to cease all operations, declare bankruptcy or enter into a voluntary liquidation. Tegal’s stock price has been declining over the past 24 months, from $6.65 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 to $3.35 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Tegal effected a 1-for-5 reverse stock split on June 15, 2011. In addition, on average there is very little trading in Tegal’s common stock and our recent announcement of our investment in Nano Vibronix this fiscal year and our investment in Sequel Power last fiscal year was not sufficient to sustain an increase in our stock price. There may be no additional announcements from Sequel Power, and even if there are, we cannot predict how Tegal’s stock price will react to Sequel Power’s announcements and results. While we are investigating other opportunities for Tegal, either through direct investment, merger or acquisition, Tegal will continue to sustain losses which may continue to materially decrease the price of our common stock. If Tegal never finds or establishes another revenue or profit generating activity, the price of Tegal’s common stock may decline to zero. 9 Table of Contents We face risks associated with acquisitions, investments and other transactions. We face risks associated with acquisitions, investments and other transactions. We are continuing to seek and evaluate strategic alternatives in other diversified technology-based markets. In the future we may engage in acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses, products, services and/or technologies in pursuit of a new business plan. Risks associated with any of these transactions include, but are not limited to: · difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies during the transition and integration; · disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; · difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, and other administrative systems; · inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; · inability to retain key customers, vendors, and other business partners of the acquired business; · inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; · incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors, or third party providers of technology or products; · potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture, and development or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; · potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; · potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and · potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. Divestitures, acquisitions, and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: · operating results of Sequel Power; · operating results of any companies that we may acquire in the future; · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business; 10 Table of Contents · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · expenses related to, and the financial impact of, the disposition of our assets. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key personnel and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key officers or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key personnel, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key personnel including our executive officers are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain. Our stock price is volatile and could result in a material decline in the value of your investment in Tegal. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, the progress we may or may not achieve with respect to potential strategic alternatives, fluctuations in our operating results, sales of our common stock into the marketplace, failure to meet or changes in analysts’ expectations, general conditions in the our industry or the worldwide economy, announcements of technological innovations or new products or enhancements by us or our competitors, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights, developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers, natural disasters and outbreaks of hostilities could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of small capitalization stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. If we fail to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ delists our common stock, the market liquidity and price of our common stock will likely decline. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “TGAL” (or “TGALD”). On July 8, 2010, we received a deficiency letter from the NASDAQ Capital Market stating that, based on the closing bid price of our common stock for the 30 consecutive business days preceding such date, we no longer meet the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market under Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). On November 12, 2010, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Capital Market notifying us of our eligibility for a second 180 day grace period in which to regain compliance with our bid price deficiency. On January 5, 2011, we requested the additional grace period and it was granted, subject to regaining compliance by July 5, 2011. The Company regained compliance on June 15, 2011 by effecting a 1-for-5 reverse stock split. On June 15, 2011, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the “Amendment”). The Amendment effected a one-for-five (1-for-5) reverse stock split of the Company’s outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share. The reverse stock split became effective at 5:00 pm Eastern Time on June 15, 2011. We do not know whether the reverse stock split will have the intended effect of curing our bid price deficiency. It is possible, however, that our stock may not continue to meet the NASDAQ bid price requirement, in which case we would be unable to continue to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, for that or any other reason, our stockholders will be adversely affected. Among other adverse consequences of a delisting, there will likely cease to be a trading market for our shares other than in the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. It could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our Board of Directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our Board of Directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 11 Table of Contents We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of stockholders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: · Adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock: · Discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority or our common stock; · Limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or · Otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 