Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Associated with Our Business ActivitiesOur operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control, including economic downturns and viewer preferences.Our operations and performance are dependent on advertising revenues, which can be materially affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and viewer preferences. Volatility in advertising revenue impacts our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Decreases in advertising revenues caused by economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could impair our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, as more fully described below.In addition to economic conditions, our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as:•the relative popularity of the programming on our stations;•the demographic characteristics of our markets; and•the activities of our competitors.Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur in even-numbered years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. For example, during 2012, we had net political advertising revenues of $76.5 million, compared to $7.6 million in 2013.We depend on automotive advertising to a significant degree.Approximately 26%, 26% and 24% of our local and national advertising revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common shares.We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $932.2 million of consolidated net debt, which is equal to the difference between total debt and unrestricted cash, and $89.1 million of total LIN LLC shareholders' equity. The outstanding revolving credit loans and term loans under our senior secured credit facility, which were $30 million and $118.4 million, respectively, as of March 3, 2014, and are due October 26, 2017 and the outstanding incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility were $312.5 million as of March 3, 2014 and are due on December 21, 2018. The outstanding Senior Notes (as defined in "Description of Indebtedness"), which were $200 million and $290 million as of March 3, 2014 are due on April 15, 2018 and January 15, 2021, respectively. Subject to the limitations in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, we may incur additional material indebtedness in the future, and we may become more leveraged. Accordingly, we now have and will continue to have significant debt service obligations. Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example:•require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities;•require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain;•limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;•expose us to greater interest rate risk, because the interest rates on our senior secured credit facility vary; and•impair our ability to successfully withstand a sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors.The indentures governing our Senior Notes also contain change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest.21Table of ContentsAny of these consequences relating to such debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations.We could fail to comply with our financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition.Our debt instruments require us to comply with financial covenants, including, among others, leverage ratios. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Weak results of operations due to reduced advertising revenues may make it harder for us to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.Our debt instruments also contain certain other restrictions on our business and operations, including, for example, covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. These restrictions could affect our ability to implement strategic initiatives, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms.The outstanding revolving credit loans and term loans under our secured credit facility are due October 26, 2017 and the outstanding incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility are due December 21, 2018. Our outstanding Senior Notes are due on April 15, 2018 and January 15, 2021, respectively. If we do not refinance, redeem or discharge our 83/8% Senior Notes on or prior to January 15, 2018, then, in such event, the maturity of the incremental term loan facility will be accelerated from December 21, 2018 to January 15, 2018. While we expect to refinance, redeem, or discharge all of the outstanding 83/8% Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, we can provide no assurances that this will occur. Our inability to refinance our 83/8% Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, and the resulting acceleration of the incremental term loans would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations.Economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial condition.Economic conditions have been challenging and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could further reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Poor economic conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive industry, which is a significant source of our advertising revenue. Additionally, financial institutions, capital providers, or other consumers may be adversely affected. Potential consequences of any economic decline, among others, include:•the financial condition of those companies that advertise on our stations may be adversely affected and could result in a significant decline in our advertising revenue;•our ability to pursue the acquisition of attractive television and non-television assets may be limited if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional capital on favorable terms, if at all;•our ability to pursue the divestiture of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited;•our ability to refinance our existing debt on terms and at interest rates we find attractive, if at all, may be impaired;•impairment charges to our intangible assets and/or goodwill; and•our ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired.We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common shares.Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Approximately $740 million, or 61% of our total assets as of December 31, 2013 consisted of indefinite-lived intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill, which are required to be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and other intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant.During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $1.6 million impairment charge to a broadcast license recorded within discontinued operations.If we determine in a future period, as part of our testing for impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common shares.22Table of ContentsOur strategy has historically included growth through acquisitions, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage.We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions, our liquidity, and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, with the goal of improving our business. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage, debt service requirements, future performance-based purchase obligations and combining company cultures and facilities, and we may not be able to successfully expand our digital operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls or increase revenues as a result of any acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management's attention from the operation of our core business.Certain acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations.If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline.The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite television and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. As a result, we are experiencing increased competition for viewing audience and advertisers. Significant declines in viewership and advertising revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations.The television broadcasting business is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations. In addition, the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to do so could aggressively compete with our business.The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations.The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming. In some cases, we make cash payments to certain networks.Some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to early termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of shares having 50% or more of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common shares held by them into shares of either class A common shares or class C common shares, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. The majority of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to make cash payments to the network and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive.A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: (i) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station's viewing audience; (ii) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; (iii) costs of building a new or larger news operation; (iv) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and (v) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station's programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network's share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their 23Table of Contentsproduction cycle, the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network's programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station.Changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In recent years, the national broadcast networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of our stations.We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our management or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future.We depend on the efforts of our management and other key employees. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to develop and retain management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.Our defined benefit pension plan obligations are currently underfunded, and we may have to make significant cash payments to this plan, which would reduce the cash available for our business.We have unfunded obligations under our defined benefit pension plan. The funded status of the defined benefit pension plan depends on such factors as asset returns, market interest rates, legislative changes and funding regulations. Our future required cash contributions and pension costs to the plan could increase if: (i) the returns on the assets of our plan were to decline in future periods; (ii) market interest rates were to decline; (iii) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (referred to as the "PBGC") were to require additional contributions to the plan as a result of acquisitions; or (iv) other actuarial assumptions were to be modified. Any such increases could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The need to make contributions, which may be substantial, to such plan may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations, including our debt obligations with respect to our senior secured credit facility and our Senior Notes to meet the needs of our business. In addition, the PBGC may terminate our defined benefit pension plan under limited circumstances, including in the event the PBGC concludes that the risk may increase unreasonably if such plan continues. In the event a defined benefit pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we could be required to make an immediate payment to the PBGC of all or a substantial portion of such plan's underfunding, as calculated by the PBGC based on its own assumptions (which might result in a larger obligation than that based on the assumptions we have used to fund such plan).Risks Related to Our Governance and Capital StructureHMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from the interests of the holders of our Class A common shares, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a block of substantial voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of other holders of our common shares.HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common shares, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common shares into class A common shares, which may be subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common shares into class A common shares, the class C common shares will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common shares. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 37.7% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other shareholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other shareholders.For example, HMC may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may 24Table of Contentsfrom time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined beneficially own all of our class C common shares and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Sector Performance Fund, L.P., which was sponsored by an affiliate of HMC. The fund does not have an investment in us.It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common shares.Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common shares and all of the shares of our class B common shares. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power of our class C common shares held by affiliates of Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B shares into class A shares or class C shares, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common shares. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common shares.We may issue additional debt and equity securities which are senior to our common shares as to distributions and in liquidation, which could materially adversely affect the market price of our class A common shares.In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into additional debt or debt-like financings that are secured by all or up to all of our assets, or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured liquidity notes, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes or shares. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to holders of our common shares. Any preferred securities may have a preference with respect to distributions and upon liquidation. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financing. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Accordingly, holders of our Class A common shares will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the value of our common shares and diluting their interest in us. In addition, we can change our leverage strategy from time to time without approval of holders of our common shares, which could adversely affect the market price of our class A common shares.The board of directors of LIN LLC will have the authority to adopt amendments to the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "LLC Agreement") that change many of the terms of the LIN LLC common shares in ways with which the holders of our Class A common shares may disagree without approval of holders of our common shares.Owners of our common shares may disagree with amendments to the LLC Agreement adopted by the board of directors of LIN LLC that change the terms of such shares, and may disagree with the decision made by the LIN LLC board of directors that the changes made to the terms of our common shares are not adverse to holders of our common shares or that such changes do not alter the characterization of LIN LLC. The recourse of holders of our common shares, if they disagree, will be limited because the LLC Agreement gives broad authority and discretion to the board of directors of LIN LLC to adopt certain amendments to the LLC Agreement without the consent of shareholders of LIN LLC.While we do not currently anticipate making regular cash distributions to holders of our common shares, the board of directors of LIN LLC has full authority and discretion over any distributions and it may decide to change or eliminate distributions at any time, which may adversely affect the market price for our shares.We do not currently anticipate making regular cash distributions to holders of LIN LLC common shares. However, our board of directors will have full authority and discretion to determine whether or not a distribution by LIN LLC should be declared and paid to holders of our common shares, as well as the amount and timing of any distribution. Our board of directors may, based on its review of our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, determine to change or eliminate distributions, which, if distributions are then being paid to holders of our common shares, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, in computing U.S. federal income tax liability for a taxable year, each holder of our common shares will be required to take into account its allocable share of items of our income, gain, loss, deduction and credit for the taxable year of LIN LLC ending within or with such holder's taxable year, regardless of whether such holder has received any distributions. As a result, it is possible that a holder's U.S. federal income tax liability with respect to its allocable share of the earnings of 25Table of ContentsLIN LLC in a particular taxable year could exceed the cash distributions to it, thus requiring an out-of-pocket tax payment by such holder. Tax Risks to Holders of LIN LLC Common SharesOur structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our structure also is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The U.S. federal income tax treatment of holders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Holders of our common shares should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in LIN LLC common shares may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, possibly on a retroactive basis. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the "Qualifying Income Exception"), affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common shares.Our LLC Agreement will permit our board of directors to amend our LLC Agreement from time to time, without the consent of the holders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all holders. In addition, although our board of directors has no plan or intention to do so, it could elect at some point to treat us as an association taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal (and applicable state) income tax purposes, in which event the U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning our common shares would differ. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the applicable tax rates. In addition, we would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise tax on all our income. Distributions to holders of our common shares would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would otherwise flow through to them.Moreover, we will apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to holders in a manner that reflects such holders' beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. As a result, a holder transferring common shares may be allocated income, gain, loss and deductions realized after the date of transfer. However, those assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Code and/or Treasury regulations and could require that items of income, gain, loss, deductions or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects holders.Holders of our common shares will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.As long as 90% of our gross income for each taxable year constitutes qualifying income as defined in Section 7704 of the Code and we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, and assuming there is no change in law, we will be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not as an association or a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Accordingly, holders of our common shares will be required to take into account their allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit. Distributions to holders of our common shares generally will be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes only to the extent the amount distributed exceeds their tax basis in LIN LLC common shares. This treatment contrasts with the treatment of a shareholder in a corporation. For example, a shareholder in a corporation who receives a distribution of earnings from the corporation generally will report the distribution as dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In contrast, a holder of our common shares who receives a distribution of earnings from us will not report the distribution as dividend income (and will treat the distribution as taxable only to the extent the amount distributed exceeds the holder's tax basis in the common shares), but will instead report the holder's allocable share of items of our income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, holders of our common shares may be subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxation on their allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including our allocable share of those items of any entity in which we invest that is treated as a partnership or is otherwise subject to tax on a flow through basis) for each of our taxable years ending with or within their taxable years, regardless of whether or not holders of our common shares receive cash distributions from us. 26Table of ContentsTax gain or loss on disposition of LIN LLC common shares could be more or less than expected.If holders of our common shares sell their common shares, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common shares. Prior distributions to them in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in their common shares, will in effect become taxable income to them if the common shares are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common shares, even if the price is less than the original cost.Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning LIN LLC common shares that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.In light of our activities as a holding company owning only the common stock of LIN Television, we generally do not expect to generate significant amounts of income treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders of our common shares ("ECI"). However, there can be no assurance that we will not generate ECI currently or in the future and, subject to the qualifying income rules described above, we are under no obligation to minimize ECI. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. holders generally would be subject to withholding tax on their allocable shares of such income, would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable shares of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI, and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event). In addition, certain income of non-U.S. holders from U.S. sources not connected to any such U.S. trade or business conducted by us could be treated as ECI. Non-U.S. holders that are corporations may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax on their allocable share of such income. In addition, certain income from U.S. sources that is not ECI allocable to non-U.S. holders will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate. A portion of any gain recognized by a non-U.S. holder on the sale or exchange of common shares could also be treated as ECI.Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning LIN LLC common shares that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.In light of our activities as a holding company owning only the common stock of LIN Television, we generally do not expect to directly hold operating businesses that generate unrelated business taxable income for tax-exempt holders of our common shares ("UBTI") other than through corporations. However, certain of our activities may be treated as debt-financed, which may give rise to debt-financed UBTI. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will not generate UBTI currently or in the future and, subject to the qualifying income rules, we are under no obligation to minimize UBTI. Consequently, a holder of common shares that is a tax-exempt organization may be subject to "unrelated business income tax" to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of UBTI. A tax-exempt partner of a partnership could be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the partnership interest itself is debt-financed.We cannot match transferors and transferees of the LIN LLC class A common shares, and we will therefore adopt certain income tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common shares, we will adopt tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our holders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common shares and could have a negative impact on the value of our common shares or result in audits of and adjustments to our holders' tax returns.In addition, our taxable income and losses will be determined and apportioned among holders using conventions we regard as consistent with applicable law. As a result, if holders of our common shares transfer their common shares, they may be allocated income, gain, loss and deduction realized by us after the date of transfer. Similarly, a transferee may be allocated income, gain, loss and deduction realized by us prior to the date of the transferee's acquisition of our common shares. A transferee may also bear the cost of withholding tax imposed with respect to income allocated to a transferor through a reduction in the cash distributed to the transferee.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all holders. Holders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of holding LIN LLC common shares.In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our holders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, 27Table of Contentsunincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our holders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our holders may also be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, holders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each holder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such holder. It is possible that holders may be required to file amended income tax returns.It is possible that a holder will be required to file amended income tax returns as a result of adjustments to items on the corresponding income tax returns of the partnership. Any obligation for a holder to file amended income tax returns for that or any other reason, including any costs incurred in the preparation or filing of such returns, is the responsibility of each holder.Due to uncertainty in the proper application of applicable law, we may over-withhold or under-withhold on distributions to holders.For each calendar year, we will report to holders and the IRS the amount of distributions we made to holders and the amount of U.S. federal income tax (if any) that we withheld on those distributions. The proper application to us of rules for withholding under Section 1441 of the Code (applicable to certain dividends, interest and similar items) is unclear. Because the documentation we receive may not properly reflect the identities of holders at any particular time (in light of possible sales of common shares), we may over-withhold or under-withhold with respect to a particular holder of common shares. For example, we may impose withholding, remit that amount to the IRS and thus reduce the amount of a distribution paid to a non-U.S. holder. It may turn out, however, that the corresponding amount of our income was not properly allocable to such holder, and the withholding should have been less than the actual withholding. Such holder would be entitled to a credit against the holder's U.S. tax liability for all withholding, including any such excess withholding, but if the withholding exceeded the holder's U.S. tax liability, the holder would have to apply for a refund to obtain the benefit of the excess withholding. Similarly, we may fail to withhold on a distribution, and it may turn out that the corresponding income was properly allocable to a non-U.S. holder and withholding should have been imposed. In that event, we intend to pay the under-withheld amount to the IRS, and we may treat such under-withholding as an expense that will be borne by all holders of common shares on a pro rata basis (since we may be unable to allocate any such excess withholding tax cost to the relevant non-U.S. holder).Risks Related to Our IndustryThe FCC's spectrum incentive auctions proceeding could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services.Pursuant to The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, on March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a staff report titled, "Connecting America: The National Broadband Plan" (the "NBP"). Among the many far-reaching recommendations contained in the 375-page NBP is that the FCC reallocate 120 MHz of spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services by means of, among other things, amending the FCC's technical rules to reduce television station service areas and distance separations, permitting channel sharing, conducting voluntary "incentive" auctions for the return of television broadcast spectrum, and certain other voluntary and involuntary mechanisms. The NBP also recommended spectrum "repacking," pursuant to which certain stations would be required to move to new channels, and suggested the imposition of spectrum usage fees, which may require Congressional authorization. None of the NBP's recommendations related to television spectrum are self-effectuating; consequently, implementation of the recommendations would appear to require further action by the FCC or Congress, or both.In 2010, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to consider proposals to, among other things, implement rule changes that could facilitate channel sharing by television stations and shared use of current television broadcast spectrum by wireless broadband providers. In that proceeding, the FCC also sought comment on ways to improve VHF spectrum band television operations (VHF stations have experienced reception difficulties following the DTV transition), to encourage stations on UHF channels to move to VHF channels. On April 27, 2012, the FCC adopted rules establishing a framework for multiple full-service and Class A television stations operating within the same market to share a single 6 MHz television channel while retaining distinct station licenses and MVPD carriage rights. Under the FCC's new rules, only those stations participating in the future incentive auction will be eligible to enter into channel sharing arrangements of this type. Because the FCC has not yet implemented rules for the incentive auction, stations are not yet able to enter into channel sharing arrangements of this type. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact that channel sharing among television stations will have on either the industry or our operations. This proceeding remains pending with respect to proposals to improve VHF band television operations and to enable shared use of television band spectrum with wireless broadband providers; we cannot predict its outcome or its impact on the industry or our operations.On February 17, 2012, Congress adopted legislation authorizing the FCC to direct a portion of auction proceeds to commercial users, including broadcasters, that voluntarily surrender some or all of their allotted spectrum for auction. The legislation, which the President subsequently signed into law, includes safeguards for broadcasters. In particular, in the context of an involuntary 28Table of Contentsrepacking of the TV bands, the legislation requires the FCC to make all reasonable efforts to ensure that stations retain their existing coverage areas, prevents the FCC from forcing a broadcaster to move from a UHF to a VHF channel, and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses. On October 2, 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making to implement the incentive auction statute. That proceeding remains pending. If the FCC requires some or all of our television stations to make involuntary changes to their operations, such as through frequency changes, reductions of service areas, and/or reduction of interference protection, our stations could suffer material adverse effects, including, but not limited to, substantial conversion costs, and reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage. The FCC Chairman has indicated that he anticipates that the FCC will adopt rules for the incentive auction in the first half of 2014 and that he believes that the FCC will conduct the incentive auction by the middle of 2015. We cannot predict the precise timing or scope of the incentive spectrum auctions, nor the impact, if any, that the reallocation of spectrum will have on our business. We may be unable to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements and these negotiations may be further hindered by consolidation in that industry and the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated or by statutory or regulatory developments.We may be unable to successfully negotiate retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs when the current terms of these agreements expire for various reasons, including consolidation within that industry. In addition, our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our ability to permit MVPDs to retransmit our stations' signals containing network programming, and in some cases, we may lose the right to grant retransmission consent to such providers. If the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those portions of our stations' signals containing network programming we may be unable to successfully complete negotiations for new retransmission consent agreements. Certain networks require us to pay them compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. Escalating payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission may adversely affect our operating results. If we lose the right to grant retransmission consent, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Several cable system and DBS operators jointly petitioned the FCC to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider amending its retransmission consent rules. The FCC solicited public comment on the petition and subsequently released a notice of proposed rule making seeking public comment on whether it should amend its rules to: (i) modify its standards for "good faith" negotiations of retransmission consent agreements; (ii) enhance consumer notice obligations; and (iii) eliminate the FCC's network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The proceeding is currently pending, and we cannot predict its outcome.On January 10, 2014, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a case captioned American Broadcasting Companies, Inc., et al. v. Aereo, Inc., which involves a challenge from several broadcasters of the Aereo service, which transmits to its subscribers broadcast television programs over the Internet for a monthly subscription fee. At issue is whether Aereo’s service violates copyright law and whether Aereo must obtain permission to retransmit broadcasters’ programming. Should Aereo and its competitors prevail in the pending litigation, and certain online video distributors and over-the-top video distributors become eligible for a statutory license that would enable them to stream broadcast programming over the Internet, it could have a negative impact on our retransmission consent negotiations with MVPDs, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this proceeding.Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results.Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results.Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs.The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC's approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses and those of the stations that we service via sharing arrangements are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned.In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including retransmission consent, spectrum allocation, media ownership and technological changes) that could, directly 29Table of Contentsor indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See Item 1. Business-"Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting").Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under sharing arrangements (such as LMAs, JSAs, SSAs and other similar agreements) may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under sharing arrangements, may require us to amend or terminate certain agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations.FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. Federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include limits on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market.Should the FCC modify its media ownership rules, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators, which may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets.Should the television duopoly rule be relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or more of the stations in Austin, TX, Dayton, OH, Providence, RI, Albuquerque, NM, Savannah, GA, Topeka, KS and Youngstown, OH for which we currently provide programming, sales and/or other related services under sharing arrangements, as the case may be, and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations.Should we be unable to acquire the ownership of the stations currently serviced by LMAs, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our LMAs will be permitted beyond conclusion of the FCC's current review of the ownership rules.Should the FCC conclude, as part of a periodic review of its ownership rules, that SSAs, JSAs, and similar arrangements should be attributable for purposes of the media ownership rules, there is no assurance that the FCC would grandfather the non-attributable status of our existing agreements, and, as a result, we may be required to terminate these agreements.Any potential hostilities, natural disasters, cybersecurity threats, breaches of information technology security, terrorist attacks or other disruptions may affect our revenues and results of operations.If the U.S. becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities, is impacted by any significant natural disasters or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. In light of the increased dependence on digital technologies by public companies and the increasing frequency and severity of cyber incidents, we may be subject to cybersecurity risks or other breaches of information technology security. A breach of our cyber/data security measures could disrupt our normal business operations and affect our ability to control our assets, access information and limit communication with third parties. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.