Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Forward-Looking Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Tegal Risk Factors We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could further materially decrease the price of our common stock. We had net losses of ($3,130) and ($18,469), for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We used cash flows from operations of ($74) and ($4,887), in these respective years. Currently our operations include only Sequel Power, LLC which is a new company formed to pursue utility scale projects in photovoltaic (PV) based energy production (see “Sequel Power Risk Factors”, below) and a three person headquarters staff which is administering Tegal’s activities, including the evaluation of additional business opportunities for the Company. Sequel Power is generating losses by using the capital invested by Tegal for salaries and operating expenses needed to pursue various speculative projects in the United States, Latin America and the Middle East. None of the projects that Sequel Power is pursuing may come to fruition and Sequel Power may never generate any revenues or profits. If Sequel Power consumes all of the capital provided by Tegal, Sequel Power may be required to discontinue its operations and may cease to exist, in which case, the entire investment made by Tegal will be lost. Even if Sequel Power continues in operation, any losses which it incurs will be reflected in Tegal’s financial statements and contribute to Tegal’s losses. The administration of Tegal’s non-Sequel Power activities is currently also generating losses and will continue to do so until the Company establishes additional revenue and profit generating activities. Tegal may never find or establish another revenue or profit generating activity, in which case the losses will continue. Tegal may be forced to cease all operations, declare bankruptcy or enter into a voluntary liquidation. Tegal’s stock price has been declining over the past 24 months, from $8.75 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 to $2.05 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Tegal effected a 1-for-5 reverse stock split on June 15, 2011. In addition, there is very little trading in Tegal’s common stock and our recent announcement of our investment in Sequel Power was not sufficient to sustain an increase in our stock price. There may be no additional announcements from Sequel Power, and even if there are, we cannot predict how Tegal’s stock price will react to Sequel Power’s announcements and results. While we are investigating other opportunities for Tegal to initiate operations, either through direct investment, merger or acquisition, Tegal will continue to sustain losses which may continue to materially decrease the price of our common stock. If Tegal never finds or establishes another revenue or profit generating activity, the price of Tegal’s common stock may decline to zero. We face risks associated with divestitures, acquisitions and other transactions. We face risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions. We recently sold our DRIE etch business to SPTS in February 2011. Previously, we sold our legacy Etch and PVD business to OEM Group in March 2010. While we are currently focusing our efforts on the photovoltaic market, we intend to continue to seek and evaluate strategic alternatives in other diversified technology-based markets. In the future we may engage in acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies or in pursuit of a new business plan. Risks associated with any of these transactions include, but are not limited to: · difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies during the transition and integration; 12 · disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; · difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, and other administrative systems; · inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; · inability to retain key customers, vendors, and other business partners of the acquired business; · inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; · incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors, or third party providers of technology or products; · potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture, and development or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; · potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; · potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and · potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. Divestitures, acquisitions, and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: · changes in the mix of our revenues represented by our various products, services and customers; · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · expenses related to, and the financial impact of, the disposition of our assets. 13 Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key personnel and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key officers or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key personnel, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key personnel including our executive officers are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, and technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the technology areas in which we choose to operate, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, or otherwise experience labor disruptions our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or obtain licenses for third parties’ intellectual property and therefore we may be exposed to liability for infringement or the risk that our operations may be adversely affected. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we may not be able to protect our technology adequately and competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Additionally, patent applications that we may file may not be issued and foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. There is also a risk that patents licensed by or issued to us will be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and that the rights granted thereunder will not provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar systems, duplicate our systems or design around the patents licensed by or issued to us. Litigation to protect our intellectual property could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by us, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems. In addition, licenses under third parties’ intellectual property rights may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Our stock price is volatile and could result in a material decline in the value of your investment in Tegal. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, the progress we may or may not achieve with respect to potential strategic alternatives, fluctuations in our operating results, sales of our common stock into the marketplace, failure to meet or changes in analysts’ expectations, general conditions in the our industry or the worldwide economy, announcements of technological innovations or new products or enhancements by us or our competitors, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights, developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers, natural disasters and outbreaks of hostilities could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of small capitalization stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. Any failure by us to comply with environmental regulations imposed on us could subject us to future liabilities. We were subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We believe that we were in compliance in all material respects with these regulations and that we obtained all necessary environmental permits generally relating to the discharge of hazardous wastes to conduct our business. Nevertheless, our failure to have complied with present or past regulations could result in lawsuits, fines or penalties from governmental authorities. 14 If we fail to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market and Nasdaq delists our common stock, the market liquidity and price of our common stock will likely decline. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “TGAL” (or “TGALD”). On July 8, 2010, we received a deficiency letter from the Nasdaq Capital Market stating that, based on the closing bid price of our common stock for the 30 consecutive business days preceding such date, we no longer meet the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). On November 12, 2010, we received a letter from the Nasdaq Capital Market notifying us of our eligibility for a second 180 day grace period in which to regain compliance with our bid price deficiency. On January 5, 2011 we requested the additional grace period and it was granted, subject to regaining compliance by July 5, 2011. On June 15, 2011, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the “Amendment”). The Amendment effected a one-for-five (1-for-5) reverse stock split of the Company’s outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share. The reverse stock split became effective at 5:00 pm Eastern Time on June 15, 2011. We do not know whether the reverse stock split will have the intended effect of curing our bid price deficiency. It is possible, however, that our stock may not continue to meet the Nasdaq bid price requirement, in which case we would be unable to continue to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, for that or any other reason, our stockholders will be adversely affected. Among other adverse consequences of a delisting, there will likely cease to be a trading market for our shares other than in the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. It could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, each as amended, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control transaction or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. If a tender offer, change in control transaction, takeover attempt or change in our board of directors is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of stockholders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: · Adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock: · Discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority or our common stock; · Limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or · Otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Sequel Power Risk Factors If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, Sequel Power may not become a viable entity and may never be able to sustain profitability. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if demand for solar modules fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, Sequel Power may be unable to grow its business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets — including the United States, Latin America and the Middle East — may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for solar modules, including the following: · cost-effectiveness of the electricity generated by PV power systems compared to conventional energy sources and products, including conventional energy sources, such as natural gas and coal, and other non-solar renewable energy sources, such as wind; · availability, substance, and magnitude of government subsidies, incentives, and renewable portfolio standards to accelerate the development of the solar energy industry; · performance and reliability of PV systems and thin-film technology compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; · success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV, and biomass; · fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, coal, oil, and other fossil fuels; and · fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and when interest rates increase. We face intense competition from other companies producing solar energy and other renewable energy products. The solar energy market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The number of solar energy product manufacturers is rapidly increasing due to the growth of actual and forecast demand for solar energy products and the relatively low barriers to entry. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future development projects, we will be unable to increase our revenue and market share. Some of our competitors have established more prominent market positions, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish successful development projects in our target markets, we will be unable to increase our sales. We may also face competition from new entrants to the solar energy market, including those that offer more advanced technological solutions or that have greater financial resources. Solar development projects are often funded by solar cell or module manufacturers who have significantly greater financial resources and have the ability to finance pre-development, development and project activities, and are inherently more competitive than we are. Furthermore, the entire solar energy industry also faces competition from conventional energy (for example a decline in base grid electricity prices), and non-solar renewable energy providers. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government incentive programs. 16 Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. As a result, those competitors may have stronger bargaining power with their suppliers and may have an advantage over us in negotiating favorable pricing, as well as securing supplies in times of shortages. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, balance of system capabilities, and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential developers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Developing solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the signing of a power purchase agreement or an EPC contract, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project, vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, large transmission deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of PPAs and EPC contracts and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and timing commercially acceptable to us. We are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets and weakening global economy are contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate, which slowdowns are expected to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The markets for international photovoltaic projects depend largely on government spending. Economic uncertainty and government debt levels exacerbates negative trends in credit availability for these projects and may cause our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from placing project orders, which may reduce our revenue. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products. Further, these conditions and the uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult economic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 