Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business Activities Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control, including economic downturns and viewer preferences. Our operations and performance are dependent on advertising revenues, which can be materially affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and viewer preferences. Volatility in advertising revenue impacts our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Decreases in advertising revenues caused by economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could impair our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, as more fully described below. In addition to economic conditions, our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as: •the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; •the demographic characteristics of our markets; and •the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur in even-numbered years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. For example, during 2011, we had political advertising revenues of $8.1 million, compared to $41.6 million in the prior year. We depend on automotive advertising to a significant degree. Approximately 24%, 23% and 19% of our local and national advertising revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common stock. The GECC Note could result in significant liabilities, including (i) requiring us to make short-term cash payments to the NBCUniversal joint venture to fund interest payments and (ii) potentially giving rise to the acceleration of our existing indebtedness, which would cause such existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. We may be required, or elect, to make cash payments to the joint venture to fund interest payments on the GECC Note. Our joint venture with NBCUniversal has been adversely impacted by the recent economic downturn. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, pursuant to the shortfall funding agreements with NBCUniversal and GE, we made shortfall loans in the aggregate principal amount of $2.5 million and $4.1 million, respectively, representing our approximate 20% share in debt service shortfalls at the joint venture. Because of anticipated future cash shortfalls at the joint venture, on March 5, 2012, we and GE entered into the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement covering the period from April 2, 2012 through April 1, 2013. Under the terms of the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement, we agreed that if the joint 22 Table of Contents venture does not have sufficient cash to fund interest payments on the GECC Note through April 1, 2013, we and GE would each provide the joint venture with a shortfall loan. Any shortfall loans funded by us under the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement will be calculated on the basis of our percentage of economic interest in the joint venture, and GE's share of shortfall loans will be calculated on the basis of NBCUniversal's percentage of economic interest in the joint venture. GE's obligation to fund shortfall loans under the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement is conditioned upon the receipt of the consent of Comcast Corporation to the terms and conditions on which GE provides its proportionate share of any shortfall; provided that Comcast's consent may not be unreasonably withheld. NBCUniversal acknowledged and agreed to the terms of the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement. Under the terms of the joint venture's TV Master Service Agreement with NBCUniversal, management fees owed by the joint venture to NBCUniversal will continue to accrue, but are not payable if any existing joint venture shortfall loans remain outstanding. We recognize shortfall funding liabilities to the joint venture on our consolidated balance sheets when those liabilities become both probable and estimable. These liabilities become probable and estimable when joint venture management provides us with budget or forecast information of operating cash flows and working capital needs indicating that a debt service shortfall is probable to occur, and for periods beyond joint venture management's forecast, we develop our own internal estimates of debt service shortfalls. Additionally, we accrue shortfall funding liabilities only when we have reached or intend to reach a shortfall funding agreement covering the period for which we estimate debt service shortfalls to occur. As further described in Note 15—"Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our approximate 20% share of debt service shortfalls to be $4.1 million for 2012 and into 2013. We believe that cash shortfalls beyond the amounts currently accrued are not probable. However, our prospective shortfall obligations could vary from our estimate based upon changes in the performance of the joint venture stations and any changes to the proportionate share of each party's debt service shortfall. Our ability to honor our shortfall loan obligations under the 2012 Shortfall Funding Agreement is limited by certain covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes. Based on our 2012 and 2013 estimate of debt service shortfalls at the joint venture, and our forecast of total leverage and consolidated earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") during 2012 and into 2013, we expect to have the capacity within these restrictions to provide funding to the joint venture for the $4.1 million accrued shortfall liability. As of December 31, 2011, we had availability under applicable debt covenants to fund future shortfall loans as follows: (i) approximately $48.9 million of availability under our senior secured credit facility; and (ii) approximately $147.5 million of availability under the indenture governing our Senior Notes. The possibility exists that debt service shortfalls at the joint venture could exceed current expectations, including the possibility that neither GE nor Comcast will continue to fund a share of such debt service shortfall loans after April 1, 2013. Should circumstances arise in which we desire to make shortfall loans to the joint venture in excess of the limitations imposed by the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility or the indenture, we could seek an amendment or waiver of such limitations, but there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such amendment or waiver on a timely basis, or at all, or on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to make shortfall payments, the joint venture may be unable to fund interest obligations under the GECC Note, resulting in an event of default. An event of default under the GECC Note would occur if the joint venture fails to make any scheduled interest payment within 90 days of the date due, or fails to pay the principal amount on the maturity date in 2023. If an event of default occurs, GECC could accelerate the maturity of the entire amount due under the GECC Note. Other than the acceleration of the principal amount upon an event of default, prepayment of the principal of the note is prohibited unless agreed upon by both NBCUniversal and LIN TV. Upon an event of default under the GECC Note, GECC's only recourse would be to the joint 23 Table of Contents venture, our equity interest in the joint venture and, after exhausting all remedies against the assets of the joint venture and the other equity interests in the joint venture, to LIN TV pursuant to its guarantee of the full amount of the GECC Note. Under the terms of its guarantee of the GECC Note, LIN TV would be required to make a payment for an amount to be determined upon occurrence of the following events: (i) there is an event of default; (ii) the default is not remedied; and (iii) after GECC exhausts all remedies against the assets of the joint venture, the total amount realized upon exercise of those remedies is less than the $815.5 million principal amount of the GECC Note. Upon the occurrence of such events, the amount owed by LIN TV to GECC pursuant to the guarantee would be equal to the difference between (i) the total amount at which the joint venture's assets were sold and (ii) the principal amount and any unpaid interest due under the GECC Note. As of December 31, 2011, we estimate the fair value of the television stations in the joint venture to be approximately $118 million less than the outstanding balance of the GECC Note of $815.5 million. If an event of default occurs under the GECC Note, LIN TV, which conducts all of its operations through its subsidiaries, could experience material adverse consequences, including: •GECC, after exhausting all remedies against the joint venture, could enforce its rights under the guarantee, which could cause LIN TV to determine that LIN Television should seek to sell material assets owned by it in order to satisfy LIN TV's obligations under the guarantee; •GECC's initiation of proceedings against LIN TV under the guarantee could result in a change of control or other material adverse consequences to LIN Television, which could cause an acceleration of LIN Television's senior secured credit facility and other outstanding indebtedness; and •if the GECC Note is prepaid because of an acceleration on default or otherwise, or if LIN TV is released from its obligation, LIN TV would realize a substantial tax gain of approximately $815.5 million related to its deferred gain associated with the formation of the joint venture. This amount of gain, exclusive of any potential utilization of net operating loss carryforwards, would be subject to U.S. Federal and various State tax rates of 35% and approximately 1% (net of Federal benefit), respectively. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $595.5 million of consolidated net debt, which is equal to the difference between total debt and the sum of unrestricted and restricted cash, and $84.6 million of total LIN TV stockholders' deficit. The outstanding revolving credit loans, term loans and incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility, which were $16 million, $125 million and $260 million, respectively, as of March 15, 2012, are due October 26, 2016, October 26, 2017 and December 21, 2018, respectively, and the outstanding Senior Notes are due on April 15, 2018. Subject to the limitations in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes, we may incur additional material indebtedness in the future, and we may become more leveraged. Accordingly, we now have and will continue to have significant debt service obligations. We have also guaranteed the $815.5 million GECC Note as described above. Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example: •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; •require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain; 24 Table of Contents •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •expose us to greater interest rate risk, because the interest rates on our senior secured credit facility vary; and •impair our ability to successfully withstand a sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. The indentures governing our Senior Notes also contain change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Any of these consequences relating to such debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. We could fail to comply with our financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt instruments require us to comply with financial covenants, including, among others, leverage ratios and interest coverage tests. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Weak results of operations due to reduced advertising revenues may make it harder for us to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Our debt instruments also contain certain other restrictions on our business and operations, including, for example, covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. We may not be able to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. The outstanding revolving credit loans, term loans and incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility are due October 26, 2016, October 26, 2017 and December 21, 2018, respectively, and the outstanding Senior Notes are due on April 15, 2018. If we do not refinance, redeem or discharge our Senior Notes on or prior to January 15, 2018, then, in such event, the maturity of the incremental term loan facility will be accelerated from December 21, 2018 to January 15, 2018. While we expect to refinance, redeem, or discharge all of the outstanding Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, we can provide no assurances that this will occur. Our inability to refinance our Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, and the resulting acceleration of the incremental term loans would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial condition. Economic conditions have been challenging and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could further reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Poor economic conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive industry, which is a significant source of our advertising revenue. Additionally, financial institutions, capital providers, or other consumers may be adversely affected. Potential consequences of any economic decline, among others, include: •the financial condition of those companies that advertise on our stations may be adversely affected and could result in a significant decline in our advertising revenue; 25 Table of Contents •our ability to pursue the acquisition of attractive television and non-television assets may be limited if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional capital on favorable terms, if at all; •our ability to pursue the divestiture of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited; •our ability to refinance our existing debt on terms and at interest rates we find attractive, if at all, may be impaired; •impairment charges to our intangible assets and/or goodwill; and •our ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired. We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results of operations and stockholders' equity. Approximately $512.9 million, or 48%, of our total assets as of December 31, 2011 consisted of indefinite-lived intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill, which are required to be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and other intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an impairment of our broadcast licenses of $36.8 million and an impairment of our goodwill of $2.7 million. We also recorded a $1.6 million impairment charge to a broadcast license recorded within discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. If we determine in a future period, as part of our testing for impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Our strategy has historically included growth through acquisitions, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions, our liquidity, and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, with the goal of improving our business. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage, debt service requirements, future performance-based purchase obligations and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls or increase revenues as a result of any acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management's attention from the operation of our core business. Certain acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. 26 Table of Contents HMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from your interests, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a block of substantial voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of our other stockholders. HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common stock, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, which may be subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, the class C common stock will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common stock. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 41.5% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. For example, HMC may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may from time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined beneficially own all of our class C common stock and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Equity Fund V, L.P.; Sector Performance Fund, L.P.; and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Europe Fund L.P., which are sponsored by HMC. The three listed funds do not have an investment in us. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite television and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. As a result, we are experiencing increased competition for viewing audience and advertisers. Significant declines in viewership and advertising revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations. The television broadcasting business is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations. In addition, the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new 27 Table of Contents technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to do so could aggressively compete with our business. It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common stock. Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common stock and all of the shares of our class B common stock. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power of our class C common stock held by affiliates of Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B stock into class A stock or class C stock, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common stock. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common stock. The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations if we are unable to quickly replace the network affiliation. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming and, in some cases, receive cash payments from networks. In other cases, we make cash payments to certain networks. Some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of shares having 50% or more of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common stock shares held by them into shares of either class A common stock or class C common stock, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to eliminate network compensation and, in specific cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation to our stations. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: (i) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station's viewing audience; (ii) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; (iii) costs of building a new or larger news operation; (iv) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and (v) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station's programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network's share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network's programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community 28 Table of Contents involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than to network affiliation payments and advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station. Changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the national broadcast networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of our stations. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our management or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our management and other key employees. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to develop and retain management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry The FCC's National Broadband Plan could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. Pursuant to The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, on March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a staff report titled, "Connecting America: The National Broadband Plan" (the "NBP"). Among the many far-reaching recommendations contained in the 375-page NBP is that the FCC reallocate 120 MHz of spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services by means of, among other things, amending the FCC's technical rules to reduce television station service areas and distance separations, permitting channel sharing, conducting voluntary "incentive" auctions for the return of television broadcast spectrum, and certain other voluntary and involuntary mechanisms. The NBP also recommended spectrum "repacking," pursuant to which certain stations would be required to move to new channels, and suggested the imposition of spectrum usage fees, which may require Congressional authorization. None of the NBP's recommendations related to television spectrum are self-effectuating; consequently, implementation of the recommendations would appear to require further action by the FCC or Congress, or both. On November 30, 2010, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to consider proposals to, among other things, implement rule changes that could facilitate channel sharing by television stations and shared use of current television broadcast spectrum by wireless broadband providers. In that proceeding, the FCC also sought comment on ways to improve VHF spectrum band television operations (VHF stations have experienced reception difficulties following the DTV transition), to encourage stations on UHF channels to move to VHF channels. This proceeding remains pending, and we cannot predict its outcome or its impact on the industry or our operations. On February 17, 2012, Congress adopted legislation authorizing the FCC to direct a portion of auction proceeds to commercial users, including broadcasters, that voluntarily surrender some or all of their allotted spectrum for auction. The legislation, which the President subsequently signed into law, includes 29 Table of Contents safeguards for broadcasters. In particular, the legislation requires the FCC to make all reasonable efforts to ensure that stations retain their existing coverage areas, prevents the FCC from forcing a broadcaster to move from a UHF to a VHF channel, and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses arising from repacking the television bands. If the FCC requires some or all of our television stations to make involuntary changes to their operations, such as through frequency changes, reductions of service areas, and/or reductions of interference protection, our stations could suffer material adverse effects, including, but not limited to, substantial conversion costs, and reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage. We cannot predict the outcome of any FCC proceedings, including but not limited to the procedures for, or timing of, voluntary auctions and/or involuntary spectrum repacking. We may be unable to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements and these negotiations may be further hindered by the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated or by statutory or regulatory developments. We may be unable to successfully renegotiate retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs when the current terms of these agreements expire. In addition, our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our ability to permit MVPDs to retransmit our stations' signals containing network programming, and in some cases, we may lose the right to grant retransmission consent to such providers. If the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those portions of our stations' signals containing network programming we may be unable to successfully complete negotiations for new retransmission consent agreements. Some networks require us to pay them compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. Escalating payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission, may adversely affect our operating results. If we lose the right to grant retransmission consent, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Several cable system and DBS operators jointly petitioned the FCC to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider amending its retransmission consent rules. The FCC solicited public comment on the petition and subsequently released a notice of proposed rule making seeking public comment on whether it should amend its rules to: (i) modify its standards for "good faith" negotiations of retransmission consent agreements; (ii) enhance consumer notice obligations; and (iii) eliminate the FCC's network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The proceeding is currently pending, and we cannot predict its outcome. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC's approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses, those of the stations that we service via SSAs, and those of the stations we program pursuant to LMAs are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely 30 Table of Contents manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned. In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including retransmission consent, spectrum allocation, media ownership and technological changes) that could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See "Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting" in Item 1. Business). Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under LMAs, SSAs or similar agreements, may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under LMAs, SSAs or similar agreements, may require us to amend or terminate certain agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. In addition, federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include limits on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market. Should the FCC liberalize media ownership rules, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators, which may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets. Should the television duopoly rule be relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or more of the stations in Austin, TX, Dayton, OH and Providence, RI for which we currently provide programming, sales and/or other related services under LMAs, SSAs or other similar agreements, as the case may be, and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations. Should we be unable to acquire the ownership of the stations currently serviced by LMAs, SSAs or similar agreements, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our LMAs, SSAs or other similar agreements will be permitted beyond conclusion of the FCC's current review of the ownership rules. Should the FCC conclude, as part of its current review of its ownership rules, that SSAs and similar arrangements should be attributable for purposes of the media ownership rules, there is no assurance that the FCC would grandfather the non-attributable status of our existing SSAs, and, as a result, we may be required to terminate these agreements. Any potential hostilities, natural disasters, cybersecurity threats, breaches of information technology security, terrorist attacks or other disruptions may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the U.S. becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities, is impacted by any significant natural disasters or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. In light of the increased dependence on digital 31 Table of Contents technologies by public companies and the increasing frequency and severity of cyber incidents, we may be subject to cybersecurity risks or other breaches of information technology security. A breach of our cyber/data security measures could disrupt our normal business operations and affect our ability to control our assets, access information and limit communication with third parties. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 