D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report and the following risk factors. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known by us may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere in this annual report. Risk Factors Relating to Argentina Overview We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and all of our operations, facilities, assets and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic, regulatory and political conditions prevailing in Argentina. For example, lower economic growth or economic recession could lead to lower demand for gas in our concession area or a decline in purchasing gas of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to lower collections from our clients. Argentine Government actions concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. During Argentina's economic crisis, for example, the Argentine Government to ok measures to address the crisis, such as the pesification of our tariffs, which had a severe effect on our financial condition and led us to suspend payments on our financial debt. The economic measures taken by the Argentine Government are aimed at short term objectives. The lack of medium and long term policies in infrastructure negatively affects our business prospects. We cannot provide any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Argentina's current growth and stabilization may not be sustainable. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina experienced a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Although the economy has recovered significantly over the past three years, uncertainty remains as to whether the current growth and relative stability are sustainable. Sustainable economic growth is dependant on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Peso against foreign currencies, confidence of consumers and foreign and domestic investors and stable and relatively low inflation. The Argentine economy remains fragile due to the following: relatively high unemployment rates; limited availability of long-term fixed rate loans; investment as a percentage of GDP remains low; current fiscal surplus levels could become a fiscal deficit; inflation rates continue to increase and could accelerate; Argentina's public debt remains high and access to the international capital markets is limited; and economic recovery depends, to some extent, on high commodity prices, which are volatile and outside the control of the Government, and excess capacity, which has declined considerably. The Argentine Government faced a strike by farmers and truckers who oppose the Government's policy of incrementally raising taxes on agricultural exports from March 11, 2008 to mid June 2008. The Executive Power sent a bill to the Argentine Congress that would legalize increments to export tariffs. This bill is currently under discussion. The Government also placed restrictions on export s of meat and cereal products. If this situation continues, it may have a significant impact on the Argentine economy and the prospective growth of the country. Argentina's ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth. In the first half of 2005, Argentina restructured part of its defaulted sovereign debt. The Argentine Government announced that as a result of the restructuring it had approximately US$126.6 billion in total outstanding debt. Of this amount, approximately US$19.5 billion corresponds to defaulted bonds currently owned by creditors who did not participate in the debt restructuring. Some bondholders in the United States, Italy and Germany have filed legal actions against Argentina, and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. Additionally, foreign shareholders of certain Argentine companies have filed claims in excess of US$17 billion before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes ("ICSID"), alleging that certain government measures are inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Argentina's past default and its failure to completely restructure its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may continue to prevent Argentina from reentering the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as ICSID claims may result in material judgments against the Argentine Government and could result in attachments of or injunctions relating to assets of Argentina that the government intended for other uses. As a result, the Argentine Government may not have the necessary financial resources to implement reforms and foster growth, which could have a material adverse effect on the country's economy and, consequently, on our business. The Argentine financial system is gradually recovering; however, further shocks to Argentina's financial sector could affect the financial system and the Argentine economy. During 2001 and the first half of 2002, the magnitude of deposit withdrawals, the general unavailability of external or local credit and the obligatory restructuring of public sector debt with local holders (a substantial portion of which was placed with banks), created a liquidity crisis which undermined the ability of Argentine banks to pay their depositors. As a result of such crisis, the Argentine Government restricted the amount of cash that local depositors could withdraw from banks and introduced foreign exchange controls restricting capital outflows. As a result of the recent dispute between the Argentine Government and the farmers, the increase of the inflation rate and the decline of consumption, Argentine banks have experienced the withdrawal of funds by depositors. According to a report by the Argentine Central Bank, term deposits by small depositors diminished by Ps. 1,200 million during May 2008. In the event of a deeper economic crisis, a large number of depositors may seek to withdraw all of their deposits from the Argentine banking system and convert their Pesos into U.S. Dollars in the future. If this happens, the Argentine Government may again be required to impose restrictions on the ability of depositors to withdraw their deposits, impose exchange controls and other related measures. If the Argentine Government is not able to provide these measures and if the withdrawals of funds are significant, this could lead to the collapse of the Argentine financial system. The devaluation of the Peso, the pesification and freezing of our tariffs, and the macroeconomic conditions currently prevailing in Argentina have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Public Emergency Law put an end to ten years of U.S. Dollar-Peso parity and authorized the Argentine Government to set the exchange rate between the Peso and other currencies. The Argentine Government initially established a dual exchange rate of Ps.1.40 per U.S. Dollar for certain transactions and a free-floating rate for all other transactions. This dual system was later eliminated in favor of a single free-floating exchange rate for all transactions. Since the floating of the Peso, the Peso has fluctuated significantly, causing the Central Bank to intervene in the market to limit changes in the value of the Peso by selling U.S. Dollars and, lately, by buying U.S. Dollars. As of June 13, 2008 the exchange rate was Ps. 3.040 per U.S. Dollar. See "¾ Exchange Rate Information" for additional information regarding Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rates. We cannot assure you that future policies adopted by the Argentine Government will be able to limit the volatility of the Peso and, therefore, the Peso could be subject to significant fluctuations which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Peso-denominated tax revenues constitute the majority of the Argentine Government's tax receipts and, notwithstanding their nominal increase due to inflation, tax revenues have decreased in total U.S. Dollar terms. Therefore, the Argentine Government's ability to honor its foreign debt obligations has been materially and adversely affected by the devaluation of the Peso. We derive substantially all of our revenues in Pesos from our activities in Argentina and, as a result, the devaluation of the Peso and the pesification and freezing of our tariffs have had a material adverse effect on our ability to service our indebtedness which is largely denominated in foreign currency and significantly increased in Peso terms. In addition, the Peso cost of approximately 5.2% of our expenses denominated in foreign currency and of our imported goods (including capital goods) increased due to such devaluation. Furthermore, the devaluation of the Peso has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition as the Peso-denominated book value of our assets has not increased at the same rate as has the Peso-denominated book value of our largely foreign currency-denominated indebtedness. Any further depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, our nominal financial debt in foreign currency was the equivalent of US$256.7 million.(Dollar/Euro rate = 1.4708) We cannot predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Peso may further depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. Dollar and how those currency movements may affect consumption of gas services. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Argentine Government will further modify its monetary policy and, if so, what impact these changes may have on our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine economy may experience significant inflation and none of our Peso revenues are subject to indexing. After several years of stability, the devaluation of the Peso in January 2002 imposed inflationary pressure on domestic prices, which generated high inflation throughout 2002. In 2003, inflation substantially stabilized. However, inflationary pressures have since reemerged with consumer prices increasing by 6.1% during 2004 and by 12.3% in 2005. As a result of the execution of fixed price agreements and restrictions on, and in certain cases, suspension of, exports, consumer prices increased by 9.8% in 2006. According to the Argentine statistics and census agency (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos), or INDEC, the consumer price index increased by 8.5% during 2007. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the Argentine Government's ability to create conditions conducive to growth. A return to a high inflation environment could undermine Argentina's foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Peso devaluation and negatively impacting the level of economic activity and employment. Prior to the enactment of the Public Emergency Law, the tariffs that we charged were linked to a rate per unit of usage calculated in U.S. Dollars and we also had the right to adjust that rate semiannually in accordance with variations in the U.S. producer price index. Pursuant to the Public Emergency Law, provisions requiring adjustments in agreements for the provision of public utility services between the Argentine Government and the providers of those services (including ourselves) based on foreign inflation indexes and all other indexation mechanisms have been revoked, and the tariffs for the provision of such services are now converted from their original U.S. Dollar values to Pesos at a rate of Ps.1.00 per US$1.00. Unless our tariffs increase at a rate at least equal to the rate of inflation, any further increase in the rate of inflation will result in decreases in our revenues in real terms and will adversely affect our results of operations. We are in the process of renegotiating our tariffs with the Argentine Government. We cannot give you any assurance that the outcome of this renegotiation will be favorable to our future economic and financial position. See Item 3: "-Risk Factors Relating to Us." In addition, concerns have recently arisen regarding the accuracy of inflation rates reported by the INDEC, the dismissal of certain officers and intervention in the staffing of INDEC by the Argentine Government, and the operation of the Central Bank. Due to the foregoing, on May 7, 2008, the Argentine Government announced an amendment to the method utilized by the INDEC to measure the Argentine consumer price index ("CPI"). The Argentine Government applied such new method to calculate the CPI for May 2008, which was 0.6%. The measures designed by the Argentine Government to control the flow of funds into Argentina may affect our capacity to access the international capital markets. Starting in February 2002, any dividend payment outside Argentina, irrespective of the amount, needed prior authorization from the Central Bank. In December 2002 the rule was amended through Communication "A" 3,845 which required Argentine companies to obtain prior authorization from the Central Bank to purchase currency in excess of US$150,000 (in the aggregate) per month. This amendment applied to the payment of dividends. On January 7, 2003, the Central Bank issued Communication "A" 3,859 which is still in force. Pursuant to this Communication, Argentine companies have no limitation on their ability to purchase foreign currency and transfer it outside Argentina to pay dividends as long as such dividend payments result from approved audited financial statements. In the future, similar restrictions may be enacted by the Argentine Government or the Central Bank and, if this were to occur, it could limit our ability to transfer funds abroad, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our common shares and the ADSs. In addition, by means of Decree 616/05, the Argentine Government established that, except in limited circumstances, the entrance of foreign currency into the local exchange market from foreign loans granted to private sector companies and certain foreign investments must be formalized and must remain in Argentina for at least 365 calendar days from the date the funds enter Argentina. In this respect, pursuant to Central Bank regulations, principal under foreign financial loans may not be repaid before the expiration of a 365-day term counted as from the day of the conversion to Pesos of the loan proceeds in the local foreign exchange market, irrespective of the form of repayment and of whether access to the exchange market is required or not for such purpose. Decree 616/05 also established the obligation to constitute a deposit over 30% of the funds transferred to Argentina for foreign financial financings or certain foreign investment. This deposit is nominative, nontransferable, does not accrue interest, may be formalized in U.S. Dollars and has a term of 365 calendar days. The deposit may not be granted as security in relation to other credit operations. The financing of exports and imports and all primary public offerings of securities in regulated markets are excluded from the restrictions imposed by Decree 616/05. Specific financings are exempted from the mandatory 30% deposit. This Decree can severely limit our capacity to access international capital markets or to obtain financings subject to these provisions, and thus may adversely affect our financial situation and our operational results. Changes in labor laws and judicial decisions favorable to labor unions could adversely affect our results of operations. The increase in litigation, changes in the labor laws and judicial decisions favorable to labor unions have significantly increased companies' responsibilities not only to their own employees but also in relation to all out-sourced jobs. Therefore, labor costs can increase as our indemnification responsibilities and costs expand. We have outsourced certain jobs through the hiring of third party contractors. Although we have very strict policies that govern compliance with labor contracts and social security, we cannot guarantee that the contractors' employees will not initiate legal action seeking indemnification from us, especially given some recent decisions issued by the Argentine labor relations board which recognize a shared responsibility under some circumstances between the third party contractors and the company to which they are providing services. If we cannot obtain a favorable decision in such a legal proceeding, just as with normal employee legal conflicts, we could incur increased workforce costs, which would have an adverse effect on our operations. Measures taken by the Argentine Government to address social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy and our results of operations. During the 2001 and 2002 crises, Argentina experienced social and political turmoil, including civil unrest, riots, looting, nationwide protests, strikes and street demonstrations. Despite Argentina's ongoing economic recovery and stabilization, the social and political tensions and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. These conditions could adversely affect our relations with our employees, which could affect our operations. The principal challenge of Cristina Kirchner's administration is to generate confidence and create the necessary conditions to allow long-term and sustainable growth. There is no assurance that Cristina Kirchner's administration will be able to implement the required reforms to engender economic growth and reestablish political confidence. If the new Government is unable to maintain economic recovery and foster economic growth, civil unrest and unemployment could return, which could have an adverse effect on the economy and financial system. The Argentine Government faced a strike by farmers and truckers who oppose the Government's policy of incrementally raising taxes on agricultural exports from March 11, 2008 to mid June 2008. The Executive Power sent a bill to the Argentine Congress that would legalize increments to export tariffs. This bill is currently under discussion. The Government also placed restrictions on exports of meat and cereal products. If this situation continues, it may have a significant impact on the Argentine economy and the prospective growth of the country. Future government policies aimed at addressing social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts (including our concession), suspension of the enforcement of creditors' rights and shareholders' rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. If any of these policies are adopted, they could adversely and materially affect the economy and our business. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors' perceptions of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies and continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not be adversely affected by events in developed countries' economies or in other emerging markets. Risk Factors Relating to Us We are currently renegotiating our license and tariffs with the Argentine Government. This renegotiation may result in new tariffs that do not cover our costs and may have a material adverse impact on our financial position. If we are unable to renegotiate tariffs that cover our costs we may incur operating losses. In January 2002, the Executive Power issued Law No. 25561 (Public Emergency Law) by which it was able to convert the public service companies' tariffs from their original U.S. Dollar values to Pesos at a rate of Ps.1.00 per U.S.$1.00 and freeze them at that rate. The Public Emergency Law also authorized the Argentine Government to renegotiate public service companies' licenses (including our License). We are currently negotiating with the UNIREN ("Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos"), an organization established by the Argentine Government, to renegotiate the license contracts and the tariffs that we may be able to charge in the future. According to the Public Emergency Law, the government must consider the following factors when negotiating the new tariff regime: the effect that new tariffs may have on the economy, especially with respect to competitiveness and income distribution, the service standards, the investments which licensed companies have been authorized to make and have made, consumer protection and accessibility of the services, the security of the systems, and the profitability of the public service companies. Pursuant to the process established for the renegotiations, we have submitted both an interim request for a tariff increase and a proposal regarding our tariff regime within the prescribed time periods. We do not know when the renegotiations will be concluded or whether they will have a positive or adverse effect on us. Moreover, even if the renegotiations are concluded and we reach an acceptable settlement with the Argentine Government, it is possible that such settlement will lead to social unrest or protests by our customers, thereby hindering the implementation of any future agreement. On January 24, 2003, the Argentine Government issued Emergency Decree No. 120/2003, which established that the Argentine Government may provide an interim tariff increase or adjustment that will be in force until the renegotiation process of public service contracts and licenses established by the Public Emergency Law is completed. On January 30, 2003, Decree No. 146/2003 and Resolution No. 2,787/2003 issued by ENARGAS provided an interim tariff increase of approximately 10% for the electricity and gas sectors. On January 30, 2003 we started invoicing our customers for the increased tariffs. However, the National Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires and a number of advocacy consumer organizations filed their objections to both decrees in numerous courts and, pursuant to these objections, a court issued a preliminary injunction prohibiting the tariff increase. As a result of the injunction, on February 27, 2003, we suspended the invoicing of our customers at t he increased tariff level and resumed invoicing at the former, lower tariff levels. The outcome of our license and tariff renegotiation is uncertain both as to its timing and final form. As of December 31, 2007, the number of companies that have reached an agreement with the government has increased. The first gas distribution company to sign an agreement with the Argentine Government related to the renegotiation of the license and tariffs already received the Executive Power's ratification of the agreement and the stipulated tariff increase became effective on April 1, 2007. On April 26, 2007, two other companies (members of the same economic group) also reached preliminary agreements to renegotiate their gas distribution licenses with the Argentine Government and are now waiting for the PEN's (Executive Power) approval. These companies obtained a 27% increase in their distribution gross margin for all tariff categories except residential customers, starting July 2007 for one of the companies and August 2007 for the second one. During the second quarter of 2007, two other gas distribution companies reached agreements with the Argentine Government on similar terms. Both companies are currently awaiting approval to allow them to apply their respective tariff increases retroactively to August 2007 and September 2007, respectively. We have not agreed to similar terms in our negotiations with UNIREN due to save existing differences between our situation and those of the other gas distribution companies. As a condition precedent to the Executive Branch's approval of the Agreement between us and UNIREN, UNIREN requires that our majority shareholder suspend any and all claims or actions brought against the Argentine Government brought in response to measures adopted by the Argentine Government as a result of the state of emergency established by the Public Emergency Law. Furthermore, the Agreement states that after the publication in the Official Gazette of the ENARGAS resolution that approves the new tariffs, our majo rity shareholder should withdraw all such claims and actions brought against the Argentine Government. The Agreement provides that we should grant the Argentine Government an indemnity under which we would be responsible for the full cost of any amounts that the Argentine Government is obligated to pay in connection with any claims brought by any of our shareholders. On December 24, 2007, BG, our majority shareholder, obtained a favourable award from the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law ("UNCITRAL") in a claim brought against the Argentine Government for breach of the Bilateral Investment treaty for the Promotion of Investments executed in 1990 between Argentina and the United Kingdom. The Argentine Government challenged this award in U.S. Federal Court and its decision is still pending. We cannot assure you if and when the renegotiation process will conclude, nor can we assure you whether the renegotiation process will result in additional restrictions (for example, required ca pital expenditures which prove to be unprofitable or a requirement that we agree to indemnify the government in case compensation is obtained by a shareholder as a consequence of a legal action against the government) or if the new tariffs will be sufficient to allow us to cover our costs and service our existing indebtedness after the restructuring or maintain their value in U.S. Dollars or Pesos over time to compensate for any past and future increases in inflation or the devaluation of the Peso. The energy industry in Argentina has experienced an increase in the demand for natural gas that may not be met by current gas and transportation supply and which could lead to our inability to meet our customers' needs and could adversely affect our results of operations. Under the Public Emergency Law, gas distribution and transportation tariffs were converted from U.S. Dollars to Pesos at a one-to-one rate and were frozen, and the price charged by producers of natural gas was pesified and frozen, resulting in the price of natural gas being substantially lower on an energy-equivalent basis than the prices of competing fuels. These factors led to a substantial increase in the demand for natural gas and, combined with low investments in facilities for the production, transportation and distribution of natural gas as a result of the unfavorable economic environment, produced a large disparity between demand for and supply of natural gas and gas transportation capacity. The above mentioned situation may eventually lead to a gas and electricity supply bottleneck due to the high risk of failures in the actual Argentine energy supply system. Further, pursuant to Resolutions No. 659/2004, 752/2005, 882/2005, 1,329/2006, 1,886/2006 and 599/2007 -all them enacted by the Energy Secretariat- and their regulatory rules, and in order to prevent natural gas shortages and guarantee the natural gas supply to non-interruptible consumers, the ENARGAS and/or other intervening authorities are allowed to redistribute gas volumes and/or reallocate transportation capacity, thus modifying existing contractual rights and obligations set forth under agreements entered into by and between private parties. As a consequence of the foregoing, it is reasonable to construct that we would be able to obtain sufficient natural gas and/or natural gas transportation capacity to fulfill our non-interruptible customers' demand, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient natural gas transportation capacity to fulfill our firm customers' demand for natural gas, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our cash flow and resu lts of operations. Since the 2007 winter period, the Secretariat of Interior Commerce and the Energy Secretariat increased their intervention in the operation of our business, especially regarding the restriction of natural gas supplies to certain industrial customers and power plants customers, aiming to guarantee the natural gas supply to non-interruptible customers. Along these lines, the Energy Secretariat on May 12, 2008 issued a note to Compañía Administradora del Mercado Mayorista Eléctrico S.A, ("CAMMESA"), the entity that administers Argentina's wholesale electricity market, establishing that in order to allocate available natural gas volumes in the most efficient manner, it could redirect natural gas volumes to a different power plant customer from the one contractually entitled to. We are currently analyzing the impact of this note on our contracts with power plant customers. An intervention by the Secretariat of Interior Commerce and/or the Energy Secretariat could affect supply of our services to residential, industrial and power plant customers, altering reliability of the distribution system and resulting in a decrease in our sales that could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. We did not experience any significant difficulties regarding deliveries of gas from our suppliers during the winters of 2004, 2005 and 2006. However, as partially experienced in 2007 and expected for 2008, due to the increase in demand for natural gas, the shortages in both supply and transportation capacity, and the negatives effects derived from Resolution No. 599/2007 (as analyzed in "After a number of extensions, natural gas purchasing contracts expired on July 31, 2007. The execution of new contracts based on terms and conditions offered by the producers under Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat could adversely affect our operations."), we may be unable to meet all gas demanded by our firm customers on certain days during the year (typically, reduced to the winter period). In such cases our License requires us to interrupt deliveries to our industrial and CNG customers before interrupting the supply to our residential customers. If a fter taking such actions we are still unable to supply our residential customers, our License requires that we declare a state of emergency and follow the instructions of ENARGAS and/or to adopt the decisions made within the frame of an Emergency Committee integrated by the intervening authorities and the transportation and distribution companies involved. If said interruptions occur and are attributable to MetroGAS, after an administrative proceeding we might be imposed a fine of up to US$500,000 and eventually subject to the termination of our License. In addition, we may be exposed to liability for damages caused to our customers by such interruptions. If we are unable for any reason to supply gas demanded by our customers for a significant period of time, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As later discussed under "Demand for our services is highly sensitive to weather conditions in Argentina" and "Our revenues may be adversely affected by increases in the supply of hydroelectric power", our revenues tend to be relatively higher in years with cold winters and lower levels of hydroelectric generation. Also, in the absence of unusual circumstances, our expenses in those years do not increase in proportion to our revenues, thus making those years relatively more profitable than years with warmer winters and higher levels of hydroelectric generation. This may not be the case during 2008, however, because of possible increases in our expenses derived from shortages in gas and transportation supply, including: Insufficient long-term firm transportation capacity. Because of the increase in demand for natural gas, any increase in demand for natural gas due to cold weather, lower hydroelectric power generation or the lower cost of natural gas compared to other fuels could cause us to require more transportation capacity than that for which we have contracted. As a result, we have acquired additional transportation capacity under so-called "transportation peaking agreements" under which our cost of transportation is up to three times higher than that we pay under our long-term transportation contracts. We believe that it is unlikely that we will be able to pass through to our customers a substantial portion of any payments we are required to make under these transportation peaking agreements. Power plant fines. Our contracts with our power plant customers permit us to interrupt the delivery of gas within certain limits. If we exceed these limits we are required to pay fines that grow in accordance with increases in the contracted volumes that we do not deliver. An increase in demand from our non-interruptible customers coupled with a shortage of gas due to supply or transportation constraints could result in a substantial increase in the fines we are required to pay our power plant customers in 2008 as compared to such payments in 2007. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by our need to purchase additional transportation capacity through "peaking" contracts as well as by the resulting fines from not satisfying our power plant customers' demand. Demand for our services is highly sensitive to weather conditions in Argentina. Our sales and earnings are highly sensitive to weather conditions in Argentina. Demand for natural gas is, and, accordingly, our revenues are, significantly higher during the winter months than during the rest of the year. Unseasonably warm weather in our service area during the winter months can cause a significant reduction in the demand for gas, especially among residential customers, our largest single source of revenues and the class of customers the tariff for which provides us with our highest margins. Since the regulatory scheme under which we operate does not allow us to recover the cost of our unused firm transportation capacity through our tariffs, the adverse effect of a weather-related reduction in demand of our residential customers may be worsened if we are unable to use our excess transportation capacity for other classes of customers or to dispose of our surplus capacity. Our revenues may be adversely affected by increases in the supply of hydroelectric power. Under the Argentine electrical regulatory system, electricity generators are dispatched in ascending order of marginal generation cost. Since hydroelectric generation plants generate power at a lower marginal cost than the generation marginal cost of other power plants (including our power plant customers), a material increase in power generated by hydroelectric generating stations may displace a material amount of power generated by other types of power plants (including our power plant customers) and cause a corresponding decrease in sales to our power plant customers. Both heavy precipitation and a material increase in installed hydroelectric generation capacity will, unless the related power is exported or unless transmission facilities are insufficient to transmit such power, most likely increase the supply of hydroelectric power, thereby reducing demand for thermal generation and, as a result, our sales to power plants. The effect of this displacement is particularly adver se to us if it occurs during the warmer months of the year, the period during which our sales to power plants typically represent a significant portion of our revenues and permit us to use our excess firm transportation capacity. We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes to the regulatory framework may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operation. We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result of the economic volatility experienced in Argentina since 2001, the Argentine Government put in place various regulatory measures to attempt to mitigate the adverse effects on the energy sector that have developed. In February 2004, the Executive Power issued Decree No. 180/04, which created a special trust fund for new transportation and distribution infrastructure; created the Electronic Gas Market to coordinate and centralize all transactions related to spot gas purchases and secondary transportation and distribution markets; replaced, amended and introduced terms and conditions of certain distribution categories; allowed the re-sale of distribution services by distribution users under certain conditions; and authorized the natural gas distributors to have a controlling stake in natural gas marketers. See Item 4 "Information of the Company-Business Overview." Also in February 2004, the Executive Power issued Decree No. 181/04 allowing the Energy Secretariat to enter into an agreement with the natural gas producers to adjust the price of natural gas payable by natural gas distribution companies at the point of entry of the transportation system. The agreement established in this Decree was promulgated by Resolution no. 208/04. Pursuant to Decrees Nos. 180/04 and 181/04, the Energy Secretariat and ENARGAS issued several regulatory rules providing for, among other things, the suspension of exports of natural gas, the setting of discounts or surcharges to certain users, and the creation of a regime of cuts to the transportation and distribution services aiming to guarantee the supply of natural gas to non-interruptible users. In May 2005, the Energy Secretariat issued Resolution No. 752/05, which established the so-called "unbundling" regime. This resolution prohibited natural gas distributors to sell natural gas to certain large consumers. Several modifying resolutions have since been implemented, which (i) altered the deadlines set forth in Resolution No. 752/05, (ii) excluded certain customers and organizations from the unbundling regime, and (iii) implemented additional regulations on the purchase and sale of natural gas. See Item 4 "Information of the Company-Business Overview-ENARGAS-Changes in Regulations." In February 2006, the Energy Secretariat issued Resolution No. 275/06 whereby it required the natural gas distributors to act as proxies of the CNG supply stations at the first event of the "Mechanism of Allocation of Natural Gas for CNG Supply Stations" and to act on their behalf by (i) carrying out the nominations and deliveries of natural gas until September 30, 2006, for no consideration, (ii) filing irrevocable offers before the Electronic Gas Market and (iii) executing the corresponding natural gas purchase agreements. Up to the date of this report, two events of the referred to Mechanism of Allocation were conducted before the Electronic Gas Market. By Decree No. 180/04, the Energy Secretariat reserved the right to geographically limit the participation of the gas distributors created by Article 28 of the same decree. These distributors have not, as of yet, been subject to regulation but no assurance can be given that this will continue. On May 21, 2007, through Decree No. 571/07, the Argentine Government imposed the intervention of ENARGAS for a period of 180 days, which was extended for an additional 180-day period by Decree No. 1,646/07 on November 14, 2007. We cannot assure you that this intervention will not result in new regulations that could negatively affect our business in the near future. We cannot assure you that the interpretation and application of the above mentioned regulations, together with any future changes to ENARGAS and the regulatory framework would not materially and adversely affect us. See Item 4: "Information on the Company-Business Overview-Regulatory Framework-Changes in Regulations." We have been, and continue to be, subject to adverse tariff adjustments determined by ENARGAS, the Regulatory Authority. Our results of operations depend on the applicable regulatory framework and the interpretation and application of such framework by ENARGAS, the Argentine Government agency created to regulate privatized gas transportation and distribution companies. ENARGAS' interpretation and application of the regulatory framework has been adverse to our business on a number of occasions. Pursuant to the framework that regulates the public gas distribution service in Argentina, tariffs paid for gas distribution are required to be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the cost of purchased gas as well as other taxes and charges we incur in distributing gas to our customers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ENARGAS has limited on several occasions the pass-through of the cost, taxes and other charges of gas we purchased. We have filed appropriate appeals with respect to these matters, some of which have been rejected. Future interpretations and applications of the regulatory framework by ENARGAS, including future limitations on the pass-through of material gas purchase costs, taxes and charges, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4: "Information on the Company¾ Business Overview." The main principles that rule the gas pass-through effect established under our distribution license should remain unchanged, or on the contrary, the inability to pass-through our increased costs to our customers could result in an increased financial gap which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As later discussed under "After a number of extensions, natural gas purchasing contracts expired on July 31, 2007. The execution of new contracts based on terms and conditions offered by the producers under Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat could adversely affect our operations.", volumes made available to us under the Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011 (approved by Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat), do not cover our demand of transportation of natural gas to our residential customers. We can give no assurance if ENARGAS will eventually approved the pass-through to tariffs of any increase in the cost of gas for volumes taken over the ones established by the mentioned Agreement. The Second Five-Year Tariff Review, which was suspended by ENARGAS in a release issued on February 8, 2002, as a result of the sanction of the Emergency Law, and no date has been set to reinitiate the process as it depends on the Contract Renewal process. Future negative economic developments may result in the adoption of other measures by the Argentine Government, including changes to measures already adopted. We cannot assure you what effect these developments and measures may have on the value of our assets or our results of operations. The regulatory framework also establishes that cost variations resulting from changes in taxation rules shall be passed through to our tariffs. In 2000, GCBA created a rate referred to as the "Study, Revision and Inspection of Works in Public Space Rate", or the "Inspection Rate." During 2007, GCBA made various claims against us with respect to the Inspection Rate, further described in Item 8: Financial Information - Legal Proceedings. After administrative and judicial proceedings, we reached an agreement with the GCBA and entered into several payment plans. We notified ENARGAS of the foregoing and requested the authorization to pass through any amounts we pay as a result thereof to our customers. No assurance can be given, however, that we will be permitted to pass through any such amounts. Moreover, in 1998, GCBA created a Public Space Occupancy Rate, or "Occupancy Rate" applicable to gas pipelines (and others). We and other utility companies have challenged the validity of the Occupancy Rate, further described in Item 8: Financial Information - Legal Proceedings. During 2007 GCBA made various claims against us with respect to the Occupancy Rate. According to the Gas Regulatory Framework, ENARGAS should approve the pass-through of these Occupancy Rates to customers. Although ENARGAS has in prior years approved the pass-through of the Occupancy Rates, it has not yet done so with respect to these most recent rates being charged by GCBA. As a result, certain distribution companies have requested that the Energy Secretariat grant the pass-through of these costs and have obtained the necessary authorization from the Energy Secretariat to do so. In May 2005, in response to a Presentation filed by us, the Ministry of Economy's Legal Affairs Department commented favourably on the pass-through of these costs to customers through the tariffs and filed its comment with ENARGAS for the final decision. In addition, the Company timely pays the Occupancy Rate to four other municipalities (Esteban Echeverría, Berazategui, Almirante Brown and Ezeiza) and during 2006 and 2007 executed certain payment agreements to cancel accrued debts in this regard with said municipalities (except for Berazategui, with no accrued debt whatsoever) following legal actions initiated by them. We filed the pertaining requests before the ENARGAS for the approval of the pass-through to tariffs of the amounts paid to the municipalities. We can give no assurance as to when ENARGAS will ultimately allow us to pass through these payments that we make to the GCBA and the municipalities, whether other jurisdictions may claim similar levies. During 1994, the Province of Buenos Aires agreed with the Argentine Government that the Province would not impose turnover taxes on sales of natural gas at a rate in excess of 3.5% of the invoice prices of those sales. Subsequently, the Province imposed turnover taxes on sales of natural gas at a higher rate and instructed us to include turnover taxes at the higher rate in our invoices to our customers and to remit the taxes so collected to the Province. We declined to follow those instructions, citing the agreement between the Province and the Argentine government described above. The Province has requested that we pay an amount equal to the increased turnover taxes that our customers would have been required to pay if we had included turnover taxes at the higher rate in our invoices to our customers. We have declined to make the payment. For further information, see Item 8: Financial Information - Legal Proceedings. In March 2008, the Tax Authority of the Province of Buenos Aires noti fied us of three additional assessments for the period between January 2004 and October 2005. These claims are based, in almost equal proportions, on the above described increase of the tax rate and in certain differences upon assessing the corresponding taxable base (derived mainly from the liquids' processing business). We appealed both claims before the Province's Tax Court. If we are ultimately required to pay Turnover Tax differences derived from the increase of the tax rate, we will attempt to pass them through to our customers through our tariffs as provided by the terms of our License. However, we can give no assurances as to whether or not we will be required to make such payments or, if we are required to do so, whether we will be able to pass them through to our customers through our tariffs. In August 2007, there was an incident involving a 24" steel main operating at 22 bar that was a result a manufacturing defect. Consequently, pipeline integrity is being assessed. The outcome of this assessment could result in increased investment requirements in order to reduce the risk of similar incidents taking place. In August 2007, there was an incident (related to a manufacturing defect) on a 24" steel main operating at 22 bar. This situation has modified the risk assessment of this main, which takes in account the likelihood of failure and the consequences of such failure. To reduce the risk of similar incidents occuring, this main is currently operating at 12 bar. Pipeline integrity is being assessed by sampling affected pipeline sections, which will also enable us to ascertain the appropriate corrective actions that will mitigate the risk of future failures. Although only 20% of the integrity assessment plan has been completed so far, a critical failure has already been identified in one of the sections assessed, which cause us to infer that it is not an isolated manufacturing defect. We cannot give any assurances as to whether the outcome of the assessment could result in increased investment requirements or whether if investment requirement were increased that our financial situation would allow us to meet those investment requirements. Additionally, the occurrence of similar incidents could adversely affect out result of operations. We may be required by law to undertake a mandatory capital stock reduction and to be dissolved and liquidated. If our losses for any year exceed our reserves plus 50% of our capital stock at the end of that year, we would be required to reduce our capital stock pursuant to Article 206 of the Argentine Corporations Law unless we receive a capital contribution sufficient to restore our financial condition. In addition, if our shareholders' equity becomes negative (that is, if our liabilities exceed our assets) at any year-end, we will be required to dissolve and liquidate pursuant to Article 94 of the Argentine Corporations Law unless we receive a capital contribution which would result in our assets exceeding our liabilities. On July 16, 2002, the Argentine Government issued Decree No. 1,269/2002, which suspended the enforcement of such provisions of the Argentine Corporations Law until December 10, 2003. This term was extended until December 10, 2004 by Decree No. 1,293/2003 and further extended until December 10, 2005, by Decree No. 540/2005. Thus, Article 94 of the Argentine Corporati ons Law is again in force, and our losses will require the reduction of our capital or our dissolution and liquidation if we do not receive appropriate capital contributions. Our revenues may be materially and adversely affected by prices of competing fuels. We compete directly with sellers of fuel oil for sales to dual-fuel power plants and industries. Fuel oil prices in Argentina have been volatile but generally above the price of natural gas for an equivalent amount of energy. However, energy-equivalent fuel oil prices have occasionally dropped below our maximum tariff price for interruptible gas sales to power plants. Since August 2007, pursuant to Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat, which approved the "Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011" governing and regulating the natural gas supplies to distribution companies (for the supply of residential users and small businesses), CNG, industries and power plants until December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2011 depending on the end consumer, the prices of natural gas at the transportation system entry point for power plants and industries started to progressively increase on a monthly basis adjusted by a factor issued by the Energy Secretariat. Although natural gas pri ces remain lower than alternate fuels under Resolution No. 599/2007, by virtue of the so-called "Program of Total Energy" launched by the Argentine Government in 2007 (extended in 2008), which, among other goals, encourages switching from natural gas to alternate fuels, the prices of alternate fuels actually paid are reduced to match the prices of natural gas (through subsidies from the Argentine Government to the providers of alternative fuels). Our generating plant customers have installed combined cycle technology. While electric generating plants with combined cycle technology require less natural gas than open cycle generating plants to generate the same electricity, we estimate that the combined cycle generating plants' operating efficiency will increase its output under the rules of CAMMESA. The combined cycle technology uses diesel as an alternative fuel instead of fuel oil. No assurance can be given that future increases in the price of natural gas or decreases in gas-oil, gasoline and diesel fuel prices would not result in energy generated by gas-oil, gasoline or diesel fuel to be cheaper to users and thereby adversely affect our revenues. See Item 4: "Information on the Company-Business Overview-Revenues-Compressed Natural Gas Service." Our revenues may be adversely affected by the right of our clients to bypass our services. Although our license grants us the exclusive right to distribute natural gas within our service area, Argentina's gas delivery system is an open-access system. A primary feature of an open-access system is that large users within our service area are permitted to contract for the purchase of natural gas from marketers or producers and enter into contracts with transportation and distribution companies to deliver the purchased gas to these users. Such users arrange their own gas supply while they continue to use our distribution system and our transportation capacity for delivery of gas. In such cases, the users pay us a tariff for the use of our distribution system and transportation capacity. Alternatively, users may build a direct connection to a transmission system while still purchasing gas from us and paying us a tariff to cover the cost of the purchased gas. Customers within our service area who contract for both direct purchase and transportation of gas without use of o ur distribution system would not pay us a tariff. Any consumer who wishes to bypass our system completely in order to avoid paying us tariffs must incur various costs and face certain practical limitations that, in some cases, make bypassing our system economically disadvantageous or impractical. For example, users not using our distribution system must incur the expense of building and maintaining connection lines (an expense that increases with distance from the transmission line and population density of the proposed pipeline area) as well as the expense of associated metering and other items. Limited access to firm transportation capacity will also be a problem for users who require an uninterrupted gas supply. In addition, a customer desiring to purchase gas from a third party must give ENARGAS and us three months' notice of such fact. We cooperate with power plant users and certain industrial users that purchase gas directly from gas suppliers, but continue to use our transportation and distribution services. This type of arrangement allows us (a) to avoid incurring gas purchase costs (and take-or-pay charges) and (b) to collect a tariff from the customers, thereby defraying all or part of the cost of our firm transportation capacity used for such services. These arrangements also enable us to achieve certain savings by avoiding (a) the cost of purchasing the gas that is used as compression fuel which, pursuant to the regulatory framework, cannot be passed on to customers, and (b) certain gross turnover taxes imposed on our sales of gas. Under such arrangements, all such customers will continue to depend on the distribution and transportation services we provide. We have built strong working relationships with many of our major customers and we are implementing appropriate contracting and pricing policies that discourage the construction of direct connecting pipelines between our major users and the transportation systems that would completely bypass our system and avoid the use of our firm transportation capacity. It is possible that certain of our users will completely bypass our services or require us to further unbundle our services in a manner that could adversely affect our margins. See Item 4: "Information of the Company-Business Overview-Regulatory Framework." Our management believes that the effect of any such situations could, however, be partially mitigated by provisions in certain of our firm transportation contracts with Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. ("TGS") which provide that, if any of our users enters into a firm transportation agreement with TGS (either directly with TGS or with a third party such as a producer or gas broker), we would have the right to reduce our firm transportation commitment with TGS by up to the amount of the lost service between us and such customer. Our firm transportation contracts with Transportadora de Gas del Norte S.A. ("TGN") contain similar provisions. Alternative energy sources, primarily fuel oil for power plants and liquid processed gas, or "LPG," for residential users and smaller commercial users, are currently substitutes for natural gas. The abundance of natural gas in Argentina has historically provided natural gas with a large cost advantage over fuel oil. In order to enable us to achieve a higher load factor during the warmer months when residential demand is weaker, certain power plant users have agreed to take a minimum amount of gas at discounts from maximum tariffs. Conversely, during the colder months, we and certain dual-fuel power plants in our service area agreed that we would deliver to such power plants a minimum volume of gas on an interruptible basis. If we fail to meet our commitments, we will be required to refund a portion of the excess cost of fuel oil over the price of undelivered gas on an energy-equivalent basis. After a number of extensions, natural gas purchasing contracts expired on July 31, 2007. The execution of new contracts based on terms and conditions offered by the producers under Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat could adversely affect our operations. The agreements between us and the natural gas suppliers provided for in Resolution No. 208/04 expired on December 31, 2006, as well as the contracts between our gas marketer subsidiary, MetroENERGÍA, and the natural gas suppliers. In December 2006, these agreements were extended until April 30, 2007, and subsequently extended until the end of June 2007 to give time to natural gas suppliers to reply to the National Government on a proposal recently issued. On June 14, 2007, Resolution No. 599/2007 of the Energy Secretariat was published in the Official Gazette, approving the draft of the "Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011", then ratified by the gas producers and in force as of August 1, 2007. This Agreement governs and regulates the supply of natural gas by producers to distribution companies (for the supply of residential users and small business), compressed natural gas or CNG, industries and power plants for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2011, depending on the type of consumer, indicating the volumes, basins and point of entry to the transportation system to be observed by each producer. Due to different factors not attributable to us (e.g., lack of compliance of certain producers, lack of transportation capacity, increased demand for natural gas, etc.), the volumes made available to us under the Agreement do not cover our demand for transportation of natural gas to our residential customers. Although the Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011 foresees the execution of gas supply agreements ("GSA") between gas distribution companies and gas producers, we did not execute any GSAs since the terms and conditions offered by the producers were not acceptable to us. We considered the offers made to be a breach of the obligations set forth under the Agreement. None of the other eight gas distributors executed any GSAs. As a consequence of this, as of the date of this annual report we are being supplied natural gas by the producers under terms and conditions of the aforementioned Agreement and ancillary supply orders issued by the authorities focused on guaranteeing the non-interruptible demand. Due to our view that the volumes, basins of injection and routes of transportation foreseen in the Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011 would prevent the normal supplying of natural gas to residential customers, we made presentations to ENARGAS, the Energy Secretariat and the Fuel Sub-secretariat to raise awareness of this situation and to request its amendment. If new agreements between the National Government and natural gas suppliers are reached, it will require us and MetroENERGÍA to adapt our natural gas contracts to the new terms of such agreements. We cannot assure you what effect these agreements may have on contracted volumes of natural gas and on our operating costs and results of operations. We may incur take-or-pay liabilities. Most of our gas purchase contracts include provisions, known as "take-or-pay" provisions, which require us to pay for certain minimum volumes of gas even if we do not take such volumes. As a result of the 2004 Agreement, we renegotiated our gas supply contracts as described above. Our take-or-pay commitments through 2007 under those gas purchase contracts require us to pay for an average of 70% of the gas that we are entitled to purchase under such contracts. While we believe it is unlikely that the take-or-pay provisions in our gas supply contracts will result in any significant liability for gas not taken we can give no assurance that such liability may not arise during 2008 or any subsequent years. See Item 4: "Information on the Company-Business Overview-Commercial Contracts-Natural Gas Purchase Contracts-Current Gas Purchase Contracts" and Item 4: "Information on the Company-Business Overview-Commercial Contracts-Natural Gas Purchase Contracts-Take-or-Pay Obligations." Our License is revocable under certain circumstances, and revocation of our License would have a material and adverse effect on us. Our License, the specific bidding rules, or the "Pliego," governing the privatization of Gas del Estado S.E., or "Gas del Estado," and the regulations issued pursuant to the law under which we were privatized, Law No. 24,076, or the "Gas Act," contain requirements regarding quality of service, capital expenditures, restrictions on transfer and encumbrance of assets, restrictions on cross-ownership between producers, transporters and distributors of gas and restrictions on the transfer by Gas Argentino S.A., or "Gas Argentino," of our Class A Shares and the transfer by Gas Argentino's shareholders of their shares of Gas Argentino. Failure to comply with these requirements or restrictions may result in a revocation of our License by the Argentine Government upon the recommendation of ENARGAS. The purchase by us of more than 20% of our gas in any month from any person that controls Gas Argentino or from any affiliate of the controlling person could result, under certain circumstances, in the revocation of our License. Furthermore, our bankruptcy would result in the revocation of our License. See Item 4: "Information on the Company-Business Overview-Regulatory Framework-The Gas Act and Our License-Penalties and Revocation." On September 17, 2002, the Argentine Government issued Decree No. 1,834/2002 (which shall remain in effect as long as the Public Emergency Law is in effect), which provides that the filing of reorganization proceedings or a petition in bankruptcy by or against companies that are renegotiating their government-granted licenses as a result of the Public Emergency Law shall not lead to termination of the licenses of such companies. As a general rule, upon the expiration of our License, we will be entitled to receive the lower of the following two amounts: (a) the net book value of our Essential Assets (including property, plant and equipment) determined on the basis of the price paid by Gas Argentino and the original cost of subsequent investments carried in U.S. Dollars and adjusted by the U.S. PPI, net of accumulated depreciation, and (b) the proceeds of a new competitive bidding process to acquire our License, net of costs and taxes paid by the successful bidder. If our License is terminated by the Argentine Government prior to the expiration of its full term as a result of nonperformance by us, the Argentine Government may offset against our net book value any sum due to the Argentine Government for damages caused by the events resulting in the termination of our License. Such damages are required by our License to be at least 20% of the net book value of our assets. Alternatively, the Argentine Government under such circumstances could require Gas Argentino to transfer its holding of our shares to ENARGAS as trustee for their subsequent sale through a competitive bidding process. Compensation received by us for the termination of our License may be insufficient to enable us to pay our obligations, including interest on and the principal amount of our financial indebtedness. The restrictive covenants in our outstanding indebtedness could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our currently outstanding indebtedness contains numerous restrictive covenants which limit our financial flexiblity. These restrictions, among other things, may limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and licenses process. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to refinance outstanding debt or to obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that a refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing would be obtained on acceptable terms. Additionally, according to Argentine corporations' law, we can pay dividends in Pesos out of any undistributed profit, assuming our accounting is done according to Argentine GAAP. Our capacity to pay dividends to our shareholders is restricted by the agreement we reached as part of our recent restructuring process. We cannot distribute dividends until December 31, 2013 and, even then, only if we have repaid at least US$75 million of our outstanding debt. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends is currently limited by our debt rate as defined in our restructuring contract. We cannot guarantee that we can either generate sufficient funds to satisfy the repayment requirement or that our debt rate will allow us to pay dividends at any given time. As of March 2008, we repurchased in the open market approximately US$ 25.4 million of our Series 1 Notes. The new Consumer Protection Law provides new and increased tools for consumers, including the possibility to initiate class action lawsuits and seek punitive damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. The consumer protection law No. 24,240 and amendments (the "Consumer Protection Law") establish certain principles and rules in order to protect consumers. On March 12, 2008 the Executive Power enacted a new amendment to such law. No regulations under this amendment have been issued so it is unclear what impact it will have on our business. However, the amendment substantially modifies the Consumer Protection Law in various aspects such as fines and interest rates. For example, the new Consumer Protection Law specifically includes the services rendered by public utilities under the law; increases the maximum fines that can be applied against suppliers; grants the judges the ability to impose punitive damages against suppliers in favor of consumers; recognizes the consumer's associations capacity to engage in class actions in name of consumers and against suppliers; and reduces the default interest that suppliers can apply against consumers. These modifications may sub stantially increase the risk of litigation against us as a supplier of natural gas and significantly reduce our collections regarding default interest all of which can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Argentine standards for disclosure and accounting differ from those of the United States and certain other countries, information about us may not be as detailed or comprehensive as that of non-Argentine issuers, including that of United States companies. Publicly available information about the issuers of securities listed on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange provides less detail in certain respects than the information that is regularly published by or about listed companies in the United States and certain other countries. In addition, regulations governing the Argentine securities market are not as extensive as those in effect in the United States and other major world markets. While we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required by foreign issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic reporting disclosure required by listed United States issuers. Furthermore, there is a lower level of regulation of the Argentine securities markets and of the investors in such markets as compared with the securities markets in the United States and certain other developed countries. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Argentine GAAP which differs in certain respects from U.S. GAAP. Risk Factors Relating to Controlling Shareholder Since Gas Argentino owns a controlling majority of our shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. Gas Argentino holds all of our shares of class A common stock, par value one Peso per share, or the "Class A Shares," representing 51% of our capital stock, and 49% of our shares of Class B common stock, par value one Peso per share, or the "Class B Shares," representing 19% of our capital stock. Gas Argentino has the power to determine the outcome of substantially all matters to be decided by a vote of our shareholders and to elect the majority of the members of our Board of Directors and the majority of the members of our Supervisory Committee. In addition, pursuant to our by-laws, or the "By-Laws" the Class A shareholders have the power to elect two of the three members of our Supervisory Committee. Accordingly, our other shareholders are not able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholder, Gas Argentino, has defaulted on its outstanding debt. If as a result of such default Gas Argentino is declared bankrupt or Gas Argentino's creditors foreclose on its only asset so that its Class A Shares in us are transferred to a third party and such transfer is not approved, our License may be revoked. At December 31, 2007, Gas Argentino had approximately US$95.3 million, including accrued interest, in financial indebtedness. Gas Argentino informed us that on December 7, 2005 it executed an agreement with the holders of all of its financial indebtedness pursuant to which such holders would exchange all obligations related to such financial indebtedness for common stock of Gas Argentino equal to 30% of its equity and the transfer to such holders of all of our Class B Shares owned by Gas Argentino. The exchange was subject to, among other things the approval by ENARGAS and the approval of the Secretary of Interior Commerce with the prior agreement of the Argentine Anti-trust Authority ("Comisión Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia" or "CNDC"). The aforementioned agreement also included a bondholders' option to terminate that agreement if, at December 7, 2006, the closing of the debt restructuring had not occurred. While ENARGAS' approval was obtained, t he CNDC's resolution, and consequently the Secretary of Commerce authorization, was pending. On May 15, 2008, Marathon Master Fund Ltd. and Marathon Special Opportunity Master Fund Ltd., one of the holders of part of its financial indebtedness, notified Gas Argentino that they were terminating the agreement, and therefore, debt, including both principal and interest, remains outstanding and Gas Argentino must start a new restructuring process with its creditors. If as a result of the termination of the agreement or for any other reason Gas Argentino is declared bankrupt or Gas Argentino's creditors foreclose on its only asset (our Class A Shares and our Class B Shares held by Gas Argentino) so that our Class Shares are transferred to a third party and such transfer is not approved by ENARGAS our License may be revoked. We cannot assure you that ENARGAS will approve any such transfer. Gas Argentino's only source of funds for the payments of its obligations is dividends paid by us. However, our capacity to pay dividends to our shareholders is restricted by the agreement we reached as part of our recent restructuring process. We cannot distribute dividends until December 31, 2013 and, even then, only if we have repaid at least US$75 million of our outstanding debt. Risk Factors Relating to our Subsidiary MetroEnergía was constituted within the framework of Decree 180/04 issued by Executive Power authorizing the natural gas distributors to have a controlling stake in natural gas marketers. Changes in the legislation applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In February 2004 the Executive Power issued Decree 180/04 authorizing the natural gas distributors to have a controlling stake in natural gas marketers. By Decree 180/04, the Energy Secretariat reserved the right to geographically limit the participation of the gas distributors created by Article 28 of the same decree. These distributors have not, as of yet, been subject to regulation but no assurance can be given that this will continue. In line with the regulatory changes that were made in the gas sector as from the issuing of Excecutive Orders No 180 and No 181 in 2004, dated December 22, 2005, the Energy Secretariat issued Resolution No. 2,020/05. Such resolution established a schedule to start purchasing natural gas in a direct way for General Service "P" customers and CNG stations. This process was called "gas unbundling". Consequently and with the goal of indirectly servicing large users of gas and gas transporters that were prohibited by law to service directly, we constituted MetroENERGÍA S.A. On July 2005, ENARGAS gave us the approval to operate MetroENERGÍA as a natural gas trading company and natural gas transportation service company. We currently own 95% of the capital in MetroENERGÍA and BG Argentina S.A., "BG Argentina", along with YPF Inversora Energética S.A., "YPF Inversora", are the holders of the remaining 2.73% and 2.27%, respectively. One of the main objectives of MetroENERGÍA was to attract those industrial and commercial customers who, until September 1, 2005, January 1, 2006, and March 1 2006, purchased natural gas together with transportation and distribution from us, and who, as a result of Resolution 752/05, must do so from a different supplier. We cannot assure you that changes in the above mentioned regulations, or any future changes to the regulatory framework would not materially and adversely affect us. MetroEnergía operates in a highly competitive market. One of the main objectives of MetroENERGÍA was to attract those industrial and commercial customers who, until September 1, 2005, January 1, 2006, and March 1 2006, purchased natural gas together with transportation and distribution from MetroGAS, and who, as a result of Resolution 752/05, must do so from a different supplier. During 2007, MetroENERGÍA, entered into contracts for supplying natural gas with different producers in order to supply customers who have to purchase gas from third-party suppliers. These contracts, which originally due between December 31, 2006 and September 30, 2007 were renewed until December 31, 2008 considering volumes established in the Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011. We can give no assurance that such contracts will be renewed in the same conditions or that changes in the contractual conditions would not materially and adversely affect us. MetroENERGÍA also entered into contracts for natural gas supply with large customers, electric power plants and customers from General Service "G" and from General Service "P", with consumption not only in the MetroGAS distribution area but also in the rest of the country. These contracts, which originally due in December 31, 2006 were renewed until December 31, 2008 considering volumes established in the Agreement with Gas Producers 2007-2011. We can give no assurance that such contracts will be renewed in the same conditions or that changes in the contractual conditions would not materially and adversely affect us. Additionally, MetroENERGÍA had signed invoicing and collection agreements, effective until May 2008, with some gas producers for selling natural gas to CNG stations in the scope of the Mechanism of Natural Gas Allocation under Resolutions No. 752/05, No. 2020/05 and No. 275/06. These agreements can be renewed annually. We can give no assurance that such contracts will be renewed in the same conditions or that changes in the contractual conditions would not materially and adversely affect us. Actions carried out through MetroENERGÍA allowed us to retain most of the industrial and commercial customers, thus being able to maintain the participation of this category of customers within MetroGAS sales portfolio. No assurance can be given if MetroENERGÍA will be able to continue retaining those customers. 