Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Forward-Looking Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. We have incurred operating losses and may not be profitable in the future. Our plans to maintain and increase liquidity may not be successful. We had net (loss) income of ($7,902), $18,104, and ($13,213) for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We (used) generated cash flows from operations of ($5,541), ($5,057), and $12,772 in these respective years. Although we believe that our outstanding cash balances, combined with continued cost containment will be adequate to fund operations through fiscal year 2010, we believe there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern if there is not significant improvement in the semiconductor capital equipment industry that has been dramatically impacted by the global economic recession. Our long-term viability of our operations is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash to support our operating needs, fulfill business objectives and fund continued investment in technology and product development without incurring substantial indebtedness that will hinder our ability to compete, adapt to market changes and grow our business in the future. More specifically, our business is dependent upon the sales of our capital equipment, and projected sales may not materialize and unforeseen costs may be incurred. If the projected sales do not materialize, we would need to reduce expenses further and/or raise additional capital which may include capital raises through the issuance of debt or equity securities in order to continue our business. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of preferred stock or debt, these securities could have rights, privileges or preferences senior to those of our common stock, and debt covenants could impose restrictions on our operations. Moreover, such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to raise any needed funds would materially adversely affect us. In consideration of these circumstances, we have engaged Cowen & Co., LLC to assist us in evaluating strategic alternatives for the Company, which may include a merger with or into another company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the liquidation or dissolution of the company, including through a bankruptcy proceeding. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in pursuing any of these strategic alternatives. If we were to liquidate or dissolve the company through or outside of a bankruptcy proceeding, you could lose all of your investment in Tegal common stock. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and may experience periodic downturns that may negatively affect customer demand for our products and result in losses such as those experienced in the past. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for ICs. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and historically has experienced periodic downturns, including the dramatic downturn we are currently experiencing, which often have had a detrimental effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for semiconductor capital equipment, including etch and deposition systems manufactured by us. In response to the current prolonged industry slowdown, we have continued our substantial cost containment program and completed a corporate-wide restructuring to preserve our cash. However, the need for continued investment in research and development, possible capital equipment requirements and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements worldwide will continue to limit our ability to reduce expenses in response to the current and any future downturns. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses such as those we have experienced in the past, which could materially adversely affect us. We are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets and weakening global economy are contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate, which slowdowns are expected to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The markets for ICs depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from placing equipment or service orders, which may reduce our revenue. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in lower Tegal sales. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products. Further, these conditions and the uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult economic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our customers are concentrated and therefore the loss of a significant customer may harm our business. The composition of our top five customers has changed from year to year, but net system sales to our top five customers in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, accounted for 89.2%, 87.2%, and 77.8%, respectively, of our total net system sales. A leading supplier in the integrated circuit and MEMS sensor market, SVTC Tech, LLC, and Diodes Fab Tech Inc accounted for 15.7%, 15.3% and 13.9%, respectively, of our total revenue in fiscal 2009. ST Microelectronics accounted for 57.8% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008. ST Microelectronics and International Rectifier accounted for 43.1% and 13.4% respectively, of our total revenue in fiscal 2007. Other than these customers, no single customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007. Although the composition of the group comprising our largest customers may vary from year to year, and quarter to quarter, the loss of a significant customer or any reduction in orders by any significant customer, including reductions due to market, economic or competitive conditions in the semiconductor and related device manufacturing industry, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our competitors have greater financial resources and greater name recognition than we do and therefore may compete more successfully in the semiconductor capital equipment industry than we can. We believe that to be competitive, we will require significant financial resources in order to offer a broad range of systems, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in research and development. Our existing and potential competitors include Sumitomo Precision Products / Surface Technology Systems, Aviza Technology, Inc.; OC Oerlikon Corporation AG; Plasma-Therm LLC, Ulvac Japan, Ltd. and Canon Anelva Technix Corporation, as well as Applied Materials, Inc., Lam Research Corporation, Novellus, Tokyo Electron Limited, Oxford Instruments, and NEXX Systems. In most cases they have substantially greater financial resources; more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service capabilities; larger installed bases of current generation production equipment; broader process equipment offerings; and greater name recognition than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against these companies in the United States or worldwide. Our potential customers may not adopt our products because of their significant cost or because our potential customers are already using a competitor’s tool. A substantial investment is required to install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor production line. Additionally, we believe that once a device manufacturer has selected a particular vendor’s capital equipment, that manufacturer generally relies upon that vendor’s equipment for that specific production line application and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of that vendor’s systems. Accordingly, it may be extremely difficult to achieve significant sales to a particular customer once that customer has selected another vendor’s capital equipment unless there are compelling reasons to do so, such as significant performance or cost advantages. Any failure to gain access and achieve sales to new customers will adversely affect the successful commercial adoption of our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on sales of our advanced products to customers that may not fully adopt our product for production use. We have designed our advanced etch and deposition products for customer applications in emerging new films, polysilicon and metal which we believe to be the leading edge of critical applications for the production of advanced semiconductor and other microelectronic devices. Revenue from the sale of our advanced etch and deposition systems accounted for 58%, 80%, and 69% of total revenue in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Our advanced systems are currently being used primarily for research and development activities or low volume production. For our advanced systems to achieve full market adoption, our customers must utilize these systems for volume production. We cannot assure you that the market for devices incorporating emerging films, polysilicon or metal will develop as quickly or to the degree we expect. If our advanced systems do not achieve significant sales or volume production due to a lack of full customer adoption, we will be materially adversely affected. We face risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions. We face risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions, including the recently completed acquisition of DRIE (Deep Reactive Ion Etch) and PECVD (Plasma-Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition) products and related intellectual property from AMMS, involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: · Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; · Lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost savings; · Revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; · Difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; · The potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; · Claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; · The issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; · Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; and · The impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. Acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. - 6 - - Our quarterly operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future. Our 900 series etch systems typically sell for prices ranging between $250,000 and $600,000, while prices of our 6500 series critical etch systems and our Endeavor deposition system typically range between $1.8 million and $3.0 million. To the extent we are successful in selling our 6500 and Endeavor series systems, the sale of a small number of these systems will probably account for a substantial portion of revenue in future quarters, and a transaction for a single system could have a substantial impact on revenue and gross margin for a given quarter. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: · our timing of new systems and technology announcements and releases and ability to transition between product versions; · changes in the mix of our revenues represented by our various products and customers; · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · expenses related to, and the financial impact of, possible acquisitions of other businesses; and · changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers’ products, due to lifecycles of our customers’ products ending earlier than expected or due to market acceptance of our customers’ products. Some of our sales cycles are lengthy, exposing us to the risks of inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results. Sales of our systems depend, in significant part, upon the decision of a prospective customer to add new manufacturing capacity or to expand existing manufacturing capacity, both of which typically involve a significant capital commitment. We often experience delays in finalizing system sales following initial system qualification while the customer evaluates and receives approvals for the purchase of our systems and completes a new or expanded facility. Due to these and other factors, our systems typically have a lengthy sales cycle (often 12 to 18 months in the case of critical etch and deposition systems) during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to a number of significant risks, including inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results over which we have little or no control. Because technology changes rapidly, we may not be able to introduce our products in a timely enough fashion. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is subject to rapid technological change and new system introductions and enhancements. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to enhance our existing systems and their process capabilities, and to develop and manufacture in a timely manner new systems with improved process capabilities. We may incur substantial unanticipated costs to ensure product functionality and reliability early in our products’ life cycles. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction and volume manufacture of new systems or that we will be able to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, new systems or enhancements to our existing systems and processes which satisfy customer needs or achieve market adoption. Our financial performance may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. Our common stock has declined in value below the exercise price of many options granted to employees pursuant to our stock option plans. Thus, the intended benefits of the stock options granted to our employees, the creation of performance and retention incentives, may not be realized. As a result, we may lose employees whom we would prefer to retain and may have difficulty in hiring new employees to replace them. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek employment with larger, more established companies or companies perceived as having less volatile stock prices. The loss of any significant employee or a large number of employees over a short period of time could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or obtain licenses for third parties’ intellectual property and therefore we may be exposed to liability for infringement or the risk that our operations may be adversely affected. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we may not be able to protect our technology adequately and competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Additionally, patent applications that we may file may not be issued and foreign intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights. There is also a risk that patents licensed by or issued to us will be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and that the rights granted thereunder will not provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar systems, duplicate our systems or design around the patents licensed by or issued to us. Litigation to protect our intellectual property could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by us, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems. In addition, licenses under third parties’ intellectual property rights may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We are exposed to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. International sales accounted for 28%, 72%, and 67% of total revenue for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. International sales are subject to certain risks, including the imposition of government controls, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar (which could increase the sales price in local currencies of our systems in foreign markets), changes in export license and other regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political and economic instability, potential hostilities, restrictions on the export or import of technology, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. We cannot assure you that any of these factors will not have a detrimental effect on our operations, financial results and cash flows. We cannot assure you that our future results of operations and cash flows will not be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are sold may not provide our products and intellectual property rights with the same degree of protection as the laws of the United States. Our stock price is volatile and could result in a material decline in the value of your investment in Tegal. We believe that factors such as announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in our operating results, sales of our common stock into the marketplace, failure to meet or changes in analysts’ expectations, general conditions in the semiconductor industry or the worldwide economy, announcements of technological innovations or new products or enhancements by us or our competitors, developments in patents or other intellectual property rights, developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers, natural disasters and outbreaks of hostilities could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of small capitalization stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. The exercise of outstanding warrants, options and other rights to obtain additional shares will dilute the value of our shares of common stock and could cause the price of our shares of common stock to decline. As of March 31, 2009, there were 8,412,676 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, 2,697,966 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants, and shares underlying equity awards created or available for grant under our equity incentive plans, and shares available under our stock purchase plan. The exercise of these warrants and options and the issuance of the common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans will result in dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding common stock and the voting power represented thereby. In addition, the exercise price of the warrants may be lowered under the price adjustment provisions in the event of a “dilutive issuance,” that is, if we issue common stock at any time prior to their maturity at a per share price below such conversion or exercise price, either directly or in connection with the issuance of securities that are convertible into, or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. A reduction in the exercise price may result in the issuance of a significant number of additional shares upon the exercise of the warrants. The outstanding warrants do not establish a “floor” that would limit reductions in such conversion price or exercise price. The downward adjustment of the exercise price of these warrants could result in further dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding common stock and the voting power represented thereby. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and price which we deem appropriate. To the extent our stockholders and the other holders of our warrants and options exercise such securities and then sell the shares of our common stock they receive upon exercise, our stock price may decrease due to the additional amount of shares available in the market. The subsequent sales of these shares could encourage short sales by our security holders and others, which could place further downward pressure on our stock price. Moreover, holders of these warrants and options may hedge their positions in our common stock by shorting our common stock, which could further adversely affect our stock price. Potential disruption of our supply of materials required to build our systems could have a negative effect on our operations and damage our customer relationships. Materials delays have not been significant in recent years. Nevertheless, we procure certain components and subassemblies included in our systems from a limited group of suppliers, and occasionally from a single source supplier. Such components and subassemblies include robots, electrostatic chucks, power supplies and flow control devices. Disruption or termination of certain of these sources could have an adverse effect on our operations and damage our relationship with our customers. Any failure by us to comply with environmental regulations imposed on us could subject us to future liabilities. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with these regulations and that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits generally relating to the discharge of hazardous wastes to conduct our business. Nevertheless, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in additional or corrective operating costs, suspension of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 