Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Forward-Looking Statements.” The following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties, as it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our future growth is dependent on the successful development and introduction of new products, services and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products, services or product and service enhancements, or that our new products will adequately address the changing needs of the healthcare marketplace. A significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may significantly decrease our operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. We have a history of losses, expect to incur substantial further losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which in turn could further materially decrease the price of our common stock. We had net losses of $(3,314) and $(3,928) for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We used cash flows from operations of $(2,593) and $(3,838), in these respective years. As of March 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,430. We will need to raise additional capital in the immediate future which may include capital raises through the issuance of debt or equity securities. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of preferred stock or debt, these securities could have rights, privileges or preferences senior to those of our common stock, and debt covenants could impose restrictions on our operations. Any equity securities could be issued at prices below the prevailing market prices, could be issued in conjunction with warrants to purchase additional shares of our common stock and would dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholder base. Moreover, such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to raise any needed funds would materially adversely affect us. In consideration of these circumstances, the Company may be forced to consider a merger with or into another company or the liquidation or dissolution of the Company, including through a bankruptcy proceeding. Without additional capital, our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may need to generate significant revenue or sell equity or debt securities to raise additional funds to continue to operate as a going concern beyond the first quarter of fiscal year 2015. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Our quarterly operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: · operating results of our Company; · operating results of any companies that we may acquire in the future; · fluctuations in demand for our products and services, and the timing of agreements with strategic partners in the healthcare marketplace; · the timing of new products, services and product and service enhancements; 12 Table of Contents · changes in the growth rate of the healthcare marketplace; · our ability to control costs, including operations expenses; · our ability to develop, induce and gain market acceptance for new products, services and product and service enhancements; · changes in the competitive environment, including the entry of new competitors and related discounting of products and services; · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business; · renewal rates and our ability to up-sell additional products and services; · the timing of customer acquisitions; · the timing of revenue recognition for our sales; and · future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key personnel and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of Thomas Mika, our President and Chief Executive Officer, our technical experts and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key personnel, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Mr. Mika is subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit Mr. Mika to terminate his employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in software and biotechnology, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area. We intend to issue stock options as a key component of our overall compensation and employee attraction and retention efforts. In addition, we are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, to recognize compensation expense in our operating results for employee stock-based compensation under our equity grant programs, which may negatively impact our operating results and may increase the pressure to limit share-based compensation. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. The personalized healthcare market is rapidly evolving and difficult to predict. If the personalized healthcare market does not evolve as we anticipate or if healthcare market participants to not perceive value in our products, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated and our stock price could decline. We are in a new, rapidly evolving category within the healthcare industry that focuses on using information technology to inform personalized cancer treatment planning. As such, it is difficult to predict important market trends, including how large the personalized healthcare market will be or when and what products customers will adopt. If the market does not evolve in the way we anticipate, if organizations do not recognize the benefit that our products and services offer, or if we are unable to sell our products and services to customers, then our revenue may not grow as expected or may decline, and our stock price could decline. New or existing technologies that are perceived to address personalized cancer treatment planning in different ways could gain wide adoption and supplant our products and services, thereby weakening our sales and our financial results. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies could render our existing products and services obsolete or less attractive to customers. Other technologies exist or could be developed in the future, and our business could be materially negatively affected if such technologies are widely adopted. We may not be able to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing technology or customer requirements on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to keep up with technological changes or to convince our customers and potential customers of the value of our products and services even in light of new technologies, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on a family of products that informs genomic-based medicine. Our current product offering is limited to a family of products that informs genomic-based medicine using a unique approach of experts and expert systems. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from this approach and the family of products based on this approach for the foreseeable future. A decline in the price of these products, whether due to competition or otherwise, or our inability to increase sales of these products, would harm our business and operating results. We expect that this concentration of revenue from a single product family comprised of a limited number of products will continue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future growth and financial performance will depend heavily on our ability to develop and sell enhanced versions of our products. If we fail to deliver product enhancements, new releases or new products that customers want, it will be more difficult for us to succeed. If we are unable to introduce new products and services successfully and to make enhancements to existing products, our growth rates would likely decline and our business, operating results and competitive position could suffer. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new products and services and to enhance and improve our existing products and services, and the acceptance of those products by our existing and target customers. Our growth would likely be adversely affected if: · we fail to introduce these new products and services or enhancements; · we fail to successfully manage the transition to new products and services from the products they are replacing; · we do not invest our development efforts in appropriate products and services or enhancements for markets in which we now compete and expect to compete; · we fail to predict the demand for new products and services following their introduction to market; or · these new products and services or enhancements do not attain market acceptance. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to increase market awareness of our Company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow, or may decline. The personalized healthcare market is nascent, and we have not yet established broad market awareness of our products and services. Market awareness of our value proposition and products will be essential to our continued growth and our success, particularly for the advanced stage treatment segment of the personalized cancer treatment market. If our marketing efforts are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our Company and our products, then our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. We compete in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may adversely impact our business and operating results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future as existing competitors bundle new and more competitive offerings with their existing products and services, and as new market entrants introduce new products into our markets. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and our failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances and otherwise keep our products and services competitive, there could be a material and adverse effect on our competitive position, revenue and prospects for growth. We compete either directly or indirectly with other medical database solution companies. The principal competitive factors in our markets include key strategic customer relationships, expert technical personnel, and marketplace acceptance of our product. Many of our current and potential competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources and greater name recognition. We could also face competition from new market entrants, including our joint-development partners or other current technology partners. In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as: · longer operating histories; 14 Table of Contents · the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; · broader distribution and established relationships with partners; · access to larger customer bases; · greater customer support; · greater resources to make acquisitions; · larger intellectual property portfolios; and · the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services. As a result, increased competition could result in loss of existing or new customers, price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Our competitors also may be able to provide customers with capabilities or benefits different from or greater than those we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications or geographic presence, or to provide end-user customers a broader range of products, services and prices. In addition, some of our larger potential competitors have substantially broader product offerings and could leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products to gain business in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products, including through selling at zero or negative margins, product bundling or closed technology platforms. These larger potential competitors may also have more extensive relationships within existing and potential customers that provide them with an advantage in competing for business with those customers. Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to provide a better product than our competitors at a competitive price. We may be required to make substantial investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and there is no assurance that these investments will achieve any returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Our limited operating history in the healthcare market makes it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment. Until recently, we designed, manufactured, marketed and serviced specialized plasma etch systems used primarily in the production of micro-electrical mechanical systems devices, such as sensors, accelerometers and power devices. Our Deep Reactive Ion Etch systems were also employed in certain sophisticated manufacturing techniques, involving 3-D interconnect structures formed by intricate silicon etching. We exited the semiconductor industry through a series of divestitures in 2010 to 2012. In July 2012, we acquired CollabRx and entered the personalized healthcare market. CollabRx was founded in 2008 to use information technology to inform personalized medicine. Our current management has only been working together with our employee base for a short period of time. This limited operating history in the healthcare market makes financial forecasting and evaluation of our business difficult. Furthermore, because we depend in part on the market’s acceptance of our products and services, it is difficult to evaluate trends that may affect our business. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business and operating results would be adversely affected, and our stock will be adversely affected. We do not sell our products and services directly to users and rely instead on contractual relationships with key market participants who derive a benefit from offering our products and services to their users. Our business development cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our business development efforts require considerable time and expense. We do not sell our products directly to users. Instead, we have strategic relationships with existing market participants who derive a benefit from offering our products to their users. Our business development efforts involve educating our potential business partners about the use and benefits of our products. Such potential business partners are typically large, well-established companies with long evaluation cycles. We spend substantial time and resources on our business development efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, strategic partnerships are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. These factors, among others, could result in long and unpredictable sales cycles. The length of our products’ business development cycles typically range from six to twelve months based on our limited experience, but may be longer as we expand our business development efforts to other segments of the healthcare market. As a result of these lengthy business development timelines and the uncertain benefit that our strategic partners may derive from offering our products, it is difficult for us to predict when our strategic partners may purchase products from us and as a result, our operating results may vary significantly and may be adversely affected. Our customers are concentrated and therefore the loss of a significant customer may harm our business. We generate revenues from a small number of customers. In fiscal year 2013, we had three customers and two of our customers, Life Technologies, Inc. and Everyday Health Inc., accounted for 75% of our revenues. In fiscal year 2014, five customers accounted 96% of our revenues. Life Technologies, Inc. accounted for 76% of fiscal year 2014 revenues. In fiscal year 2013, one of our customers, Life Technologies, Inc., accounted for 63% of our revenues, No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers would significantly impact our operating results in future periods. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with contract termination or delay The software products for which we receive revenue are distributed through third parties under license or contract, with varying terms. Generally, our agreements with third parties are subject to termination if certain revenue targets are not achieved. In addition, our agreements generally do not contain revenue or performance guarantees, so our achieved revenues may vary from targets because of changes in strategic direction of our customers, contract termination, or from delays in projected launch dates, over which we have no influence or control. The loss or delay of revenues associated with such contracts may harm our business and cause us to suffer further operating losses. If our security is breached, our business could be disrupted, our operating results could be harmed, and customers could be deterred from using our products and services. Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of information, including published data and proprietary databases. We face the risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to our computer systems that could result in misappropriation or loss of assets or information, data corruption, or other disruption of business operations. Although we have devoted significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of our information, including implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce, and implementing new technology, we have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. We believe that any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of information or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, would adversely affect our reputation and our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, and would require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cyber security costs. Defects or errors in our software could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us and impair our ability to market our products. The software applications underlying our hosted products and services are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, some of which may be material. Errors may result from our own technology or from the interface of our software with legacy systems and data, which we did not develop. The risk of errors is particularly significant when a new product is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements of existing products are released. The likelihood of errors is increased as a result of our commitment to frequent release of new products and enhancements of existing products. Material defects in our software could result in a reduction in sales and/or delay in market acceptance of our products. In addition, such defects may lead to the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, diversion of development resources or harm to our reputation. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impractical. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. If we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed and customer contracts may be terminated. If we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed and lead to reduced revenues and increased expenses. We may expand our business through new acquisitions in the future. Any such acquisitions could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our Company. We may pursue potential acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses, technologies or products complementary to our business and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including some or all of the following: · difficulties in identifying and acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses · substantial cash expenditures; · incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which we may not identify at the time of acquisition; · difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; · diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns; · risk associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; · potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; and · delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired businesses. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. An acquisition may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. The failure to evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments successfully or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. In addition, our future success will depend in part on our ability to manage the growth anticipated with these acquisitions. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or companies may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds for an acquisition by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, as a result of which our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. We may be subject to claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. Any such claims may require us to incur significant costs, to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or to develop or license substitute technology. We cannot assure you that our software solutions and the technologies used in our product offerings do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. Any future claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain any required licenses, we could encounter delays in product introductions if we attempt to design around the technology at issue or attempt to find another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering the applicable software solution. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to our technology provided to the customer, which could obligate us to fund significant amounts. Infringement claims asserted against us or against our customers or other third parties that we are required or otherwise agree to indemnify may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to adequately enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success is heavily dependent upon our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. The steps we take to protect these rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties or may not be adequate under the laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our attempts to protect our intellectual property may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and agreement terms that address non-competition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any particular case. Moreover, the degree of future protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights is uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. In addition, there remains the possibility that others will “reverse engineer” our products in order to determine their method of operation and introduce competing products or that others will develop competing technology independently. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Extensive governmental regulation could require significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. We do not believe that any of our current or planned products and services are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) or other regulatory authorities worldwide. Changes in the level of regulation, including an increase in regulatory requirements, could subject us to regulatory approvals and delays in launching our products and services. Modifying our products or services to comply with changes in regulations or regulatory guidance could require us to incur substantial costs. Further, changing regulatory requirements may render our products or services obsolete or make new products and services or enhancements more costly or time consuming than we currently anticipate. Failure by us or our strategic partners to comply with applicable regulations could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement. If our products and services fail to comply with government regulations or guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering our applicable products or services. If any of our products and services are deemed to be Medical Devices, then complying with medical device regulations on a global scale will be time consuming and expensive, and could subject us to unanticipated and significant delays. Although the United States FDA has not determined that any of our products and services are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and amendments thereto (collectively, the “Act”), the FDA may do so in the future. Other countries have regulations in place related to medical devices that may in the future apply to certain of our products and services. If any of our products and services is deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities, including pre-market notification clearance. Complying with medical device regulations would be time consuming and expensive, and could result in unanticipated and significant delays in the release of new products, services or enhancements. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software and medical devices that are used in healthcare. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such products and services, our business plans for these products could be delayed or canceled. The laws governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. If we or our customers do not maintain the security and privacy of patient records, we may become subject to sanctions by various government entities. Federal, state, local and foreign laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security and privacy measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of patient information. In the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our customers, are required to comply with the privacy standards, the transaction regulations and the security regulations. Moreover, the recently enacted Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and associated regulatory requirements, extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well, which has created additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH-related laws or regulations in the U.S. and data privacy and security laws or regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions could restrict the ability of our strategic partners to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our products and services if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our products and services to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Shares of our common stock have traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market as high as $4.55 and as low as $3.06 from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · general economic and stock market conditions, including disruptions in the world credit and equity markets; · the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; · future sales of our common stock; and 18 Table of Contents · the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little to do with our performance, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In the past, some companies, including companies in our industry, have had volatile market prices for their securities and have had securities class action suits filed against them. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from guidance provided by our management. Although it has not been our practice in the recent past to do so, we may from time to time release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports that may be published by analysts. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders may consider in their best interests, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company or deterring tender offers for our common stock that other stockholders may consider in their best interests. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of our Company in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms to be fixed by our board of directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and more expensive for a person or group to acquire control of us, and could effectively be used as an anti-takeover device. Currently there are no shares of our preferred stock issued or outstanding. Our bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate director candidates for election or to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors, and require that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman of the board, chief executive officer, president or the board pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the board. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our organizational documents may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 19 Table of Contents As a public company, we incur significant administrative workload and expenses. As a public company with common stock listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we must comply with various laws, regulations and requirements, including certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements, including our public company reporting requirements, continues to occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and involves significant accounting, legal and other expenses. We have hired, and anticipate that we will continue to hire, additional accounting personnel to handle these responsibilities, which will increase our operating costs. Furthermore, these laws, regulations and requirements could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Stock Market, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. We are investing resources to comply with evolving laws and regulations, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your investment in our common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. Shares of our common stock may depreciate in value or may not appreciate in value. The concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders provide them, collectively, with substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, own or have rights to own approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of March 31, 2014. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 