Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business Activities Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control, including economic downturns and viewer preferences. Our operations and performance are materially affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and viewer preferences. For example, the economic downturn adversely affected local and national advertising revenues across all of our stations during 2009. Advertising revenue, including local, national and political advertising revenues, consisted of approximately 84%, 90% and 92% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Local advertising revenues decreased 13% and 9% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared to their respective prior periods. National advertising revenues decreased 17%, 16% and 1% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, compared to their respective prior periods. This volatility in advertising revenues results in decreased revenues and weaker results of operations for us. While we have seen some signs of recovery, continued weakness in advertising revenues caused by economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could impair our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, as more fully described below. In addition to economic conditions, our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as: · the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; · the demographic characteristics of our markets; and · the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur in the even years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. For example, during 2009, we had political advertising revenues of $13.2 million, compared to $47.0 million in the prior year. We depend to a significant degree on automotive advertising. Approximately 19%, 24% and 28% of our net advertising revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common stock. Automotive advertising continues to be adversely affected by the difficulties experienced by the automotive industry. 23 Table of Contents The GECC Note could result in significant liabilities, including (i) requiring us to make short term cash payments to the NBC Universal joint venture to fund interest payments, and (ii) potentially giving rise to a change of control under our existing indebtedness, which would cause such existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. We may be required to make cash payments to the joint venture to fund interest payments on the GECC Note. Our joint venture with NBC Universal has been adversely impacted by the current economic downturn. Under the Original Shortfall Funding Agreement, we may be required to provide shortfall loans to the joint venture, in an amount based on our approximately 20% economic interest in the joint venture, if the joint venture does not have sufficient cash to fund interest obligations under the GECC Note through April 1, 2010. As of March 15, 2010, we have not yet provided any funding under the Original Shortfall Funding Agreement. Because of anticipated future cash shortfalls at the joint venture, on March 9, 2010, NBC Universal and we entered into the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement covering the period through April 1, 2011. Under the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement: a) the joint venture may continue to access any portion of its existing debt service reserve cash balances to fund interest payments; b) NBC will continue to defer the payment of 2008 and 2009 management fees and will defer payment of 2010 management fees through March 31, 2011; and c) we agreed that if the joint venture does not have sufficient cash to fund interest payments on the GECC Note through April 1, 2011, we and NBC Universal would each provide the joint venture with a shortfall loan on the basis of our percentage of economic interest in the joint venture. Under the terms of the Original Shortfall Funding Agreement and the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement, we estimate our share of shortfall funding could be $5.0 million to $7.0 million through the April 1, 2011 expiry of the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement. However, our actual cash shortfall funding could exceed our estimate. Our ability to honor our shortfall loan obligations under the Original Shortfall Funding Agreement and the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement is subject to compliance with restrictions under our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes. Based on the 2010 budget provided by joint venture management, and our forecast of total leverage and consolidated EBITDA during 2010 and 2011, we expect to have the capacity within these restrictions to provide shortfall funding under the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement in proportion to our approximately 20 percent economic interest in the joint venture through the April 1, 2011 expiration of the 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement. However, there can be no assurance that we will have the capacity within these restrictions to provide such funding. If we are required to fund a portion of a shortfall loan, we plan to use our available cash balances or available borrowings under our credit facility. In addition, if the joint venture experiences further cash shortfalls beyond April 1, 2011, we may decide to fund such cash shortfalls, or to fund such shortfalls through further loans or equity contributions to the joint venture. If we are unable to make payments under the Original Shortfall Funding Agreement or 2010 Shortfall Funding Agreement, the joint venture may be unable to fund interest obligations under the GECC Note, resulting in an event of default. 24 Table of Contents An event of default under the GECC Note will occur if the joint venture fails to make any scheduled interest payment within 90 days of the date due and payable, or to pay the principal amount on the maturity date. If the joint venture fails to pay interest on the GECC Note, and neither NBC Universal nor we make a shortfall loan to fund the interest payment within 90 days of the date due and payable, an event of default would occur and GECC could accelerate the maturity of the entire amount due under the GECC Note. Other than the acceleration of the principal amount upon an event of default, prepayment of the principal of the note is prohibited unless agreed upon by both NBC Universal and us. Upon an event of default under the GECC Note, GECC’s only recourse would be to the joint venture, our equity interest in the joint venture and, after exhausting all remedies against the assets of the joint venture and the other equity interests in the joint venture, to LIN TV pursuant to its guarantee of the GECC Note. Under the terms of its guarantee of the GECC Note, LIN TV would be required to make a payment for an amount to be determined upon occurrence of the following events: a) there is an event of default; b) neither NBC Universal or us remedy the default; and c) after GECC exhausts all remedies against the assets of the joint venture, the total amount realized upon exercise of those remedies is less than the $815.5 million principal amount of the GECC Note. Upon the occurrence of such events, the amount owed by LIN TV to GECC pursuant to the guarantee would be equal to the difference between i) the total amount for which the joint venture’s assets were sold and ii) the principal amount and any unpaid interest due under the GECC Note. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate the fair value of the television stations in the joint venture to be approximately $366 million less than the outstanding balance of the GECC note of $815.5 million. If an event of default occurs under the GECC Note, LIN TV, which conducts all of its operations through its subsidiaries, could experience material adverse consequences, including: · GECC, after exhausting all remedies against the joint venture, could enforce its rights under the guarantee, which could cause LIN TV to determine that LIN Television should seek to sell material assets owned by it in order to satisfy LIN TV’s obligations under the guarantee; · GECC’s initiation of proceedings against LIN TV under the guarantee could result in a change of control or other material adverse consequences to LIN Television, which could cause an acceleration of LIN Television’s credit facility and other outstanding indebtedness; and · if the GECC Note is prepaid because of an acceleration on default or otherwise, we would incur a substantial tax liability of approximately $273.6 million related to our deferred gain associated with the formation of the joint venture, exclusive of any potential NOL utilization. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $683.0 million of consolidated indebtedness and a deficit of $169.2 million of consolidated stockholders’ equity. Our outstanding debt under our credit facility is due November 14, 2011 and all of our 6½% senior subordinated notes are due May 15, 2013. Subject to the limitations in our senior credit facility and the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes, we may incur additional material indebtedness in the future, and we may become more leveraged. Accordingly, we now have and will continue to have significant debt service obligations. We have also guaranteed the $815.5 million GECC Note as described above. 25 Table of Contents Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example: · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; · require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; · expose us to greater interest rate risk, because the interest rates on our credit facility vary; and · impair our ability to successfully withstand a sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. The indentures governing our senior subordinated notes also contain change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our 6½% senior subordinated notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. We could fail to comply with our financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt instruments require us to comply with financial covenants, including, among others, leverage ratios and interest coverage tests. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Further, weak results of operations due to reduced advertising revenues may make it harder for us to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. In the past, we have obtained amendments with respect to compliance with financial ratio tests in our credit facility. For example, on July 31, 2009, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended Credit Agreement”) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and banks and financial institutions party thereto, as a result of the continued declines in revenues during 2009 and to address continued compliance with the financial covenants in our credit agreement. For further information on the Amended Credit Agreement see “Description of Indebtedness”. Consents or amendments that may be required in the future may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our debt instruments also contain certain other restrictions on our business and operations, including, for example, covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, forcing us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or obtain additional financing, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, will be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Cash interest paid during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $40.1 million, $48.8 million and $55.6 million, respectively. Our required payments of principal were $15.9 million, $202.0 million and $120.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity, sell assets or obtain additional financing. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, or refinance our indebtedness, or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to seek to restructure our remaining debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our class A common stock and the market, if any, for our debt. The current volatility in the capital markets may also impact our ability to refinance our debt or to refinance our debt on terms similar to our existing debt agreements. Additionally, we have a history of net losses and a substantial accumulated deficit. We had net losses of $830.4 million and $234.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2006, respectively, primarily as a result of impairment of our broadcast licenses and goodwill, and interest expense. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.2 billion. These losses may or may not recur, and our accumulated deficit may therefore continue indefinitely. We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Approximately $516.1 million or 65% of our total assets as of December 31, 2009 consisted of indefinite-lived intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill, which are required to be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant. We recorded an impairment of our broadcast licenses of $37.2 million and $599.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $2.7 million and $420.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For further details see Note 6 – "Intangible Assets". If we determine in a future period, as part of our testing for impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. 27 Table of Contents Our strategy has historically included growth through acquisitions, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions, our liquidity, and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, with the goal of improving our business. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls or increase revenues as a result of any acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our core business. Certain acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. HMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from your interests, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a block of substantial voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of our other shareholders. HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common stock, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, the class C common stock will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common stock. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 44.4% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. For example, HMC may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may from time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined beneficially own all of our class C common stock and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Equity Fund V, L.P.; Sector Performance Fund, L.P.; and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Europe Fund L.P., which are sponsored by HMC. The three listed funds do not have an investment in us. In addition, Peter S. Brodsky, one of our directors, is a partner of HMC. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite television and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. As a result, we are experiencing increased competition for viewing audience and advertisers. Significant declines in viewership and advertising revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations. The television broadcasting business is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations. In addition, the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to could aggressively compete with our business. It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common stock. Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common stock and all of the shares of our class B common stock. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power of our class C common stock held by Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B stock into class A stock or class C stock, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common stock. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common stock. 29 Table of Contents The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations if we are unable to quickly replace the network affiliation. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming and, in some cases, receive cash payments from networks. In other cases, we make cash payments to certain networks. Some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of shares having 50% or more of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common stock shares held by them into shares of either class A common stock or class C common stock, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network compensation and, in specific cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation to our stations. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: a) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; b) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; c) costs of building a new or larger news operation; d) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and e) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than to network affiliation payments and advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station. 30 Table of Contents Changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of our stations. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our management or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our management and other key employees. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to develop and retain management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry The FCC’s National Broadband Plan could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 directed the FCC to deliver to Congress, within one year of enactment, a “National Broadband Plan.” The FCC has indicated that it will deliver the National Broadband Plan to Congress by March 17, 2010. Certain members of the FCC’s National Broadband Plan staff have expressed the view that some or all of the spectrum presently allocated for television broadcasting should be reclaimed and reallocated to be used for other purposes, including mobile wireless broadband, and in informal discussions with broadcasters and other stakeholders they have described possible mechanisms by which this could be accomplished. If the National Broadband Plan includes one or more proposals to reallocate broadcast spectrum, further action by the FCC or Congress, or both, would be necessary in order to develop and implement them. A reallocation, if it occurs, could result in voluntary or involuntary modification of television broadcast licenses. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, or extent of a spectrum reallocation. If some or all of our television stations are required to change frequencies or reduce the amount of spectrum they use, our stations could suffer material adverse effects, including but not limited to substantial conversion costs, reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage, and an inability to provide high definition programming and additional program streams, including mobile video services. Our ability to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements may be hindered by the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated. Our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our ability to permit cable, satellite and telecommunications providers (“MVPDs”) to retransmit network programming, and in some cases, we may lose the right to grant retransmission consent to such providers. We may not be able to successfully negotiate retransmission consent agreements with the MVPDs in our local markets if the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those portions of our stations’ signals containing network programming, or the networks may require us to pay compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. If we are required to make payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission, those payments may adversely affect our operating results. If we lose the right to grant retransmission consent, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC’s approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses and those of the stations we program pursuant to LMAs are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned. In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including technological changes) that could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See “Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting” in Item 1. Business) Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under local marketing agreements, may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under local marketing agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. In addition, federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include a prohibition on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market. 32 Table of Contents Should the FCC liberalize media ownership rules, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators who may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets. Should the television duopoly rule become relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or both of the stations in Austin and Providence for which we currently provide programming, sales and other related services under local marketing agreements and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations. Should we be unable to do so, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our local marketing agreements will be permitted beyond conclusion of the current further rule-making. We had net revenues of $15.7 million, or 5% of our total net revenues, attributable to local marketing agreements for the year ended December 31, 2009. Any potential hostilities, natural disasters or terrorist attacks may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the U.S. becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities, is impacted by any significant natural disasters or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 