Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business Activities Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to downturns than businesses in other industries. Advertising volatility based on general and local economic conditions, and program ratings could affect our operating results and may make it difficult for us to repay our debt obligations, or cause the value of our common stock to decline. Our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as: • national and local economic conditions; • the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; • the demographic characteristics of our markets; and • the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur on the even years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. We depend to a significant degree on automotive advertising. Approximately 28%, 26% and 33% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common stock. If we are unable to reach retransmission consent agreements with cable, and other pay television companies for the carriage of our stations’ signals, we could lose audience share and revenues. In connection with the distribution of local broadcast television station signals to cable television and other pay television services in individual markets, the Communications Act permits the stations to choose either mandatory carriage (“must-carry”) or retransmission consent. Under must-carry, the station informs the cable or pay television company that the station’s signal is required to be distributed to the company’s subscribers, but there is no compensation to the station for such distribution. Under retransmission consent, the station notifies the local cable or pay television company that it elects to begin negotiations to determine if they can agree on the economic terms under which the cable or pay television company will be given permission to distribute the broadcast 20 Table of Contents station’s signals, either analog or high definition, or both, to the company’s subscribers. If no agreement is reached, the cable or pay television company cannot distribute the station’s signal to its subscribers and the broadcast station must rely on its over-the-air signal and other forms of competitive distribution (satellite TV systems and telecommunications) to reach its audience and provide programming and advertising. If we enter into retransmission consent negotiations with a number of local cable and pay television companies but are unable to reach agreement with respect to economic terms for the carriage of our station signals, our local television station audience, ratings and advertising revenues could substantially decline and there could be a material adverse impact to our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $832.8 million of consolidated indebtedness and approximately $656.1 million of consolidated stockholders’ equity. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, we will continue to have significant debt service obligations. Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; • require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • expose us to greater interest rate risk, since the interest rates on our credit facility vary; and • impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. In addition, our debt instruments require us to comply with covenants, including, among others, those that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Further, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. In the past, we have obtained amendments with respect to compliance with financial ratio tests in our credit facility. Consents or amendments that may be required in the future may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Our indentures also have change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our 61/2% Senior Subordinated Notes and our 61/2% Senior Subordinated Notes — Class B at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and our 2.50% Exchangeable Senior Subordinated Debentures at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. The holders of our 2.50% Exchangeable Senior Subordinated Debentures can also require us to repurchase all or a portion of the debentures, totaling $125 million, on each of May 15, 2008, 2013, 2018, 2023 and 2028. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, forcing us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, will be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity, sell assets or obtain additional financing. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, or refinance our indebtedness, or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to seek to restructure our remaining debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the market, if any, for our debt. The recent sub-prime mortgage market crisis and its pervasive effect on general credit market liquidity may also impact our ability to refinance our debt or to refinance our debt on terms similar to our existing debt agreements. We have a history of net losses and a substantial accumulated deficit. We had net losses of $234.5 million and $26.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily as a result of impairment of our broadcast licenses and goodwill, and interest expense. In addition, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had accumulated deficits of $408.7 million and $462.4 million, respectively. These losses may or may not recur, and our net losses and accumulated deficit may therefore continue indefinitely. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds to operate our business. We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments in prior periods. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Approximately $1.6 billion, or 78% of our total assets as of December 31, 2007 consists of unamortized intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill. SFAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), requires, among other things, that goodwill and certain other intangible assets be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant. Future impairment charges could significantly adversely impact our reported results of operations and stockholders’ equity. We recorded an impairment of our broadcast licenses of $222.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 and we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $95.3 million and $33.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our class A common stock traded at a price that resulted in a market capitalization less than our total stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2007. If we determine in a future period as part of our testing for impairments of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the trading price of our class A common stock. Our strategy has historically included seeking growth through acquisitions of television stations, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue acquisitions of television stations with the goal of improving their operating performance by applying our management’s business and growth 22 Table of Contents strategy. We acquired seven television stations during the last several years. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete additional station acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls, increase advertising revenues or increase audience share with respect to any acquired stations. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our core business. In addition, television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. Broadcast interests of our affiliates, including HMC, may be attributable to us and may limit our ability to acquire television stations in particular markets, restricting our ability to execute our growth strategy. The number of television stations we may acquire in any market is limited by FCC rules and may vary depending upon whether the interests in other television stations or other media properties of persons affiliated with us are attributable to those persons under FCC rules. The FCC generally applies its ownership limits to “attributable” interests held by an individual, corporation, partnership or other association. The broadcast or other media interests of our officers, directors and 5% or greater voting stockholders are generally attributable to us, which may limit our acquisition or ownership of television stations in particular markets while those officers, directors or stockholders are associated with us. In addition, the holder of an otherwise non-attributable equity or debt interest in a licensee which is in excess of 33% of total debt and equity of the licensee will nonetheless be attributable where the holder is either a major program supplier to that licensee or the holder has an attributable interest in another broadcast station or newspaper in the same market. As of March 3, 2008, affiliates of HMC owned 23,502,059 shares of our non-voting class B common stock, which represents 46.2% of our capital stock, and one share of our class C common stock, which represents less than 0.1% of our capital stock, but represents 35% of the outstanding voting power. HMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from your interests, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a majority of voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of our other shareholders. HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common stock, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, the class C common stock will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common stock. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 46.2% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. For example, HMC is in the business of making significant investments in existing or newly formed companies and may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may from time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate 23 Table of Contents acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined own all of our class C common stock and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Equity Fund V, L.P.; Sector Performance Fund, L.P.; and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Europe Fund L.P., which are sponsored by HMC. The three listed funds do not have an investment in us. In addition, Peter S. Brodsky, one of our directors, is a partner of HMC. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations. Our television broadcasting business is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations, but the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to could aggressively compete with our business. It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common stock. Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common stock and all of the shares of our class B common stock. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power rights of our class C common stock held by Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B stock into class A stock or class C stock, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common stock. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common stock. The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to quickly replace the network affiliation. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast 24 Table of Contents network-inserted commercials during that programming and, in some cases, receive cash payments from networks, and in other cases, we make cash payments to certain networks. In addition, some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of 50% of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common stock shares held by them into shares of either class A common stock or class C common stock, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network compensation and, in specific cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation to our stations. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: a) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; b) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; c) costs of building a new or larger news operation; d) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and e) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, whether it is a VHF or a UHF license, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than to network affiliation payments and advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station. The use of an alternative method of valuing our network affiliations could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Some broadcast companies may use different assumptions in valuing acquired broadcast licenses and their related network affiliations than those that we use. These different assumptions may result in the use of different valuation methods that can result in significant variances in the amount of purchase price allocated to these assets among broadcast companies. We believe that the value of a television station is derived primarily from the attributes of its broadcast license. These attributes include: • The scarcity of broadcast licenses assigned by the FCC to a particular market; • The length of time that the broadcast license has been broadcasting; • Whether the station is a VHF station or a UHF station; 25 Table of Contents • The quality of the broadcast signal and location of the broadcast station within the market; • The audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station; and • The quality of non-network programming carried by a station. We generally have acquired broadcast licenses in markets with a number of commercial television stations equal to or less than the number of television networks seeking affiliates. The methodology we have used in connection with the valuation of the stations acquired is based on our evaluation of the broadcast licenses acquired and the characteristics of the markets in which they operated. We believed that in substantially all our markets we would be able to replace a network affiliation agreement with little or no economic loss to the television station. As a result of this assumption, we ascribed no incremental value to the incumbent network affiliation in substantially all of the markets in which we operate, beyond the cost of negotiating a new agreement with another network and the value of any terms that were more or less favorable than those generally prevailing in the market. Other broadcasting companies have valued network affiliations on the basis that it is the affiliation and not the other attributes of the station, including its broadcast license, which contributes to the operating performance of that station. As a result, we believe that these broadcasting companies include in their network affiliation valuation amounts related to attributes that we believe are more appropriately reflected in the value of the broadcast license or goodwill. Some broadcasting companies believe that network affiliations are an important component of the value of a station. These companies believe that VHF stations are popular because they have been affiliating with networks from the inception of network broadcasts, stations with network affiliations have the most successful local news programming and the network affiliation relationship enhances the audience for local syndicated programming. As a result, these broadcasting companies allocate a significant portion of the purchase price for any station that they may acquire to the network affiliation relationship. If we were to adopt this alternative method for valuing network affiliations, the value of our broadcast licenses and goodwill as reported on our balance sheet would be reduced and the value of our other intangible assets would be proportionately increased. As a result, our expenses relating to the amortization of intangible assets could increase significantly as more value would be assigned to an amortizing asset and this increase could materially reduce our operating income and net income. In future acquisitions, the valuation of the broadcast licenses and network affiliations may differ from those attributable to our existing stations due to different factors and circumstances for each station and market being evaluated. The GECC Note could result in significant liabilities and could trigger a change of control under our existing indebtedness, causing our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. GECC provided debt financing for a joint venture between us and NBC Universal, another subsidiary of General Electric Company, in the form of an $815.5 million, non-amortizing senior secured note due 2023, which is an obligation of the joint venture and not us. In the event that such note is not extended or otherwise refinanced when the note matures in 2023, we expect that, assuming current federal marginal tax rates remain in effect, our tax liability related to the joint venture transaction will be approximately $285.0 million. However, any early repayment of the note will accelerate this tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Annual cash interest payments on the note are approximately $65.0 million. There are no scheduled payments of principal prior to 2023, the stated maturity of the note. The obligations under the note were assumed by the joint venture, and the proceeds were used to finance a portion of the cost of HMC’s acquisition of LIN Television Corporation. The note is not our obligation nor the obligation of any of our subsidiaries and has recourse only to the joint venture, our equity interest in the joint 26 Table of Contents venture and, after exhausting all remedies against the assets of the joint venture and the other equity interest in the joint venture, to our Company pursuant to a guarantee, which could trigger the change of control provisions under our existing indebtedness. An event of default under the note will occur if the joint venture fails to make any scheduled payment of interest, within 90 days of the date due and payable, or principal of the note on the maturity date. The joint venture had cash balances at December 31, 2007 of $15.3 million for the purpose of making interest payments on the note when due. Both NBC Universal and us have the right to make a shortfall loan to the joint venture to cover any interest payment. However, if the joint venture fails to pay principal or interest on the note, and neither NBC Universal nor us make a shortfall loan to cover the interest payment, an event of default would occur and GECC could accelerate the maturity of the entire amount due under the note. Other than the acceleration of the principal amount upon an event of default, prepayment of the principal of the note is prohibited prior to its stated maturity. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to a government-mandated analog-to-digital conversion process which may cause us to lose viewership and advertising revenues. Federal legislation now requires us to cease all analog transmissions by February 17, 2009. Approximately 12% of television households, in markets where we own and operate television stations, receive our television station signal exclusively by over-the-air transmission. In addition, millions of additional households who subscribe to cable or satellite TV systems also have additional televisions which receive over-the-air transmissions. Households without satellite TV systems or cable service are substantially greater viewers of local stations, such as ours, than satellite TV systems or cable households. The federal government has created a subsidy for households with analog over-the-air receivers to receive free digital converters. The subsidy may not be large enough to cover all households with over-the-air receivers and a significant percentage of such households may not learn of, or choose to take advantage of the subsidy. As a result, the transition to digital may cause some households to lose service and induce others to subscribe to satellite or cable service, potentially reducing our viewership and advertising revenues. Implementation of digital television improves the technical quality of over-the-air broadcast television. However, conversion to digital operations may reduce a station’s geographical coverage area. We believe that digital television is essential to our long-term viability and that of the broadcast industry in general, but we cannot predict the precise effect digital television might have on our business. The FCC has levied fees on broadcasters with respect to non-broadcast uses of digital channels, including data transmissions or subscriber services. Further advances in technology may also increase competition for household audiences and advertisers. We are unable to predict the effect that technological changes will have on the broadcast television industry or the future results of our operations. Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under local marketing agreements, may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under local marketing agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic 27 Table of Contents value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. In addition, federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include a prohibition on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market. In 2003, the FCC voted to revise and in most cases liberalize substantially several of its national and local ownership rules. In 2004, the United States Court of Appeals found virtually all of these actions to be without adequate support and remanded to the FCC for further deliberation. In 2005, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Court of Appeals decision. In June 2006, the FCC adopted a further rule-making proceeding to reexamine the ownership rules in light of the court decision. In December 2007, the FCC brought this proceeding to a close by making only moderate changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule and leaving the other rules unchanged. In 2004, Congress by statute fixed the limit on nationwide ownership of television broadcast stations at 39% of all U.S. households and the FCC has conformed its rules to that statute. We are unable to predict the timing or outcome of any FCC deliberations. Should the FCC’s amended rules ultimately become effective, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators who may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets. Should the television duopoly rule become relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or both of the stations in Austin and Providence for which we currently provide programming, sales and other related services under local marketing agreements and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations. Should we be unable to do so, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our local marketing agreements will be permitted beyond conclusion of the current further rule-making. We had net revenues of $18.6 million, or 5%, of our total net revenues, attributable to local marketing agreements for the year ended December 31, 2007. Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the United States becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents 