Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business Activities Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control, including economic downturns and viewer preferences. Our operations and performance are dependent on advertising revenues, which can be materially affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and viewer preferences. Volatility in advertising revenue impacts our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Decreases in advertising revenues caused by economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, which could impair our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, as more fully described below. In addition to economic conditions, our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as: •the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; •the demographic characteristics of our markets; and •the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur in even-numbered years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. For example, during 2012, we had net political advertising revenues of $76.5 million, compared to $8.1 million in the prior year. We depend on automotive advertising to a significant degree. Approximately 26%, 24% and 23% of our local and national advertising revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common stock. The Merger may not be completed, which would significantly increase our federal and state income tax liabilities in 2013 and may harm the market price of our class A common stock. Although our board of directors has approved the Merger and has approved and adopted the Merger Agreement, which effects the Merger, the completion of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions, and there is no assurance that all of the conditions to closing will be met and that the Merger will be completed. In addition, we reserve the right to cancel or defer the Merger even if our stockholders vote to approve the Merger and the other conditions to the completion of the Merger are satisfied or waived. While we currently expect the Merger to take place as soon as practicable after adoption of the Merger Agreement at the special meeting of our stockholders, our board of directors may defer the Merger for a significant time after the meeting or may abandon the Merger because of, among other reasons, an increase in the estimated cost of the Merger, including U.S. tax costs or other costs, changes in existing or proposed tax legislation, an increase in the trading price of our class A common stock above 23 Table of Contents approximately $20 per share (at which point LIN TV will no longer recognize a capital loss as a result of the Merger) (see "We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger because. . ." below in this section) or a determination by our board of directors that the Merger would not be in the best interests of our stockholders. While we will continue our operations if the Merger is not completed for any reason, our operations may be harmed in a number of ways, including the following: •At the time of LIN Texas's acquisition of its 20.38% interest in SVH in 1998, we recorded a deferred tax liability on capital gains related to our equity interests in SVH that became a current tax payable upon the sale of such interests. Because the Merger is expected to have the effect of allowing us to use the capital loss in LIN TV's equity in LIN Television to, in whole or in part, offset such deferred tax liability, if the sale of LIN Texas's interest in SVH is completed without promptly completing the Merger it would cause a short-term deferred tax liability of approximately $163 million to become payable beginning in 2013. If necessary, we would seek to fund any such current federal and state tax liabilities and any interest and penalties for late payment of taxes, through cash generated from operations, amounts available under our revolving credit facility, and additional borrowings. However, there can be no assurance that additional borrowings will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Should additional borrowings be unavailable, we would defer payment of this tax liability into 2014 and incur late payment interest and penalties, and we believe that there are cost and capital expenditure reduction initiatives we could take in 2013 and 2014 that, based on our current forecast of operating results, would allow us to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations, the tax liabilities associated with the JV Sale Transaction, and related interest and penalties, and to maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our debt obligations into 2014. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing our expenditures and generating sufficient cash from operations to fund the obligation in 2014. •The market price of our class A common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of such stock reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. •An adverse reaction from investors and potential investors to, among other things, the Merger may reduce future debt or equity financing opportunities for us and our subsidiaries. •Costs related to the Merger, including legal and accounting fees, must be paid even if the Merger is not completed. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger because of, among other reasons, changes in tax laws or an increase in the trading price of LIN TV class A common stock prior to the effective time of the Merger. Many factors could affect the outcome of the Merger, and some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not occur. The consequence of LIN TV's conversion of its form of organization from a corporation into a limited liability company structure in connection with the Merger will have the effect of classifying it as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Such partnership classification will be treated as a liquidation of LIN TV for federal income tax purposes with the result that LIN TV will recognize gain or loss, as applicable, in its 100% equity interest in LIN Television (its sole asset at the time of the Merger). Each LIN TV stockholder should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in LIN LLC common shares may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, possibly on a retroactive basis and changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws 24 Table of Contents and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible for us to realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Further, we will apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to holders in a manner that reflects such holder's beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. However, it is possible that our assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS may assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and/or Treasury regulations and could require that items of income, gain, loss, deductions or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated or disallowed in a manner that adversely affects stockholders. In addition, the amount of tax loss that LIN TV will be able to recognize as a result of the Merger is dependent on the value of its assets at the time of the Merger (i.e., its 100% equity interest in LIN Television), which value directly correlates to the trading price of shares of LIN TV class A common stock. As the trading price of LIN TV class A common stock increases, the amount of tax loss that LIN TV will be able to recognize in its ownership of the equity in LIN Television upon consummation of the Merger decreases and, if such trading price increases above a certain amount, LIN TV would not have sufficient losses available from the Merger to offset the entire capital gain recognized in the JV Sale Transaction. In that event, LIN TV would be required to use cash on hand and/or some (or all) of its existing $273 million net operating losses to offset all or a substantial portion of any such remaining capital gain. For example, if the trading price of LIN TV class A common stock is at or below approximately $10.75 per share at the time of the Merger, then, upon completion of the Merger, LIN TV expects to recognize a sufficient amount of capital loss to offset all of the capital gain recognized in the JV Sale Transaction. However, we have estimated that if the trading price of LIN TV class A common stock exceeds approximately $12.20 per share, we will be subject to cash tax liabilities in excess of our available NOL carryforwards. In addition, it is possible that, if the trading price of LIN TV class A common stock significantly increases to a price greater than approximately $20 per share, LIN TV would not be able to recognize any tax losses as a result of the Merger to use to offset against the capital gain recognized in the JV Sale Transaction. Furthermore, at the time of the Merger, if LIN TV class A common stock is trading at a price greater than approximately $20 per share, it is probable that LIN TV's board of directors would not consummate the Merger because LIN TV would not be able to recognize a tax loss and, as a result, LIN TV would be required to use all of its existing net operating losses and pay any resulting tax liabilities from the JV Sale Transaction with cash on hand and available borrowings (which may be insufficient). The current market price of LIN TV class A common stock may not be indicative of the market price of LIN LLC class A common shares following the Merger. The current price for the LIN TV class A common stock may not be indicative of how the market will value the LIN LLC class A common shares following the Merger because of the change in our legal structure. The LIN TV class A common stock current stock price does not necessarily take into account the effects or changes that will result from the completion of the Merger, and the share price of the LIN LLC class A common shares after the Merger could be lower than the current stock price of the LIN TV class A common stock. Our board of directors may choose to defer or abandon the Merger at any time. Completion of the Merger may be deferred or abandoned by action of our board of directors at any time, including after LIN TV stockholder approval at the special meeting. While we currently expect the Merger to take place promptly after the proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement is approved at the special meeting, our board of directors may defer completion before or after the special meeting or may 25 Table of Contents abandon the Merger at any time, including after stockholder approval, because of, among other reasons, our failure to receive tax opinions from its advisors in form and substance acceptable to us, our determination that the LIN LLC class A common shares will not be eligible for inclusion for trading on the NYSE, our determination that the IRS does not agree with our views on certain tax matters, our determination that the Merger and the other reorganization transactions would involve tax or other risks that outweigh their benefits, our determination that the level of expected benefits associated with the Merger would otherwise be reduced, changes in U.S. tax laws, rates, treaties or regulations that would adversely affect our ability to achieve the expected benefits of the Merger, an unexpected increase in the cost to complete the Merger or any other determination by our board of directors that the Merger would not be in the best interests of LIN TV or its stockholders or that the Merger would have material adverse consequences to LIN TV or its stockholders. Substantial sales of the LIN TV class A common stock prior to, or substantial sales of LIN LLC class A common shares following, the Merger could occur, which, in each case, could cause our share price to decline. The LIN LLC class A common shares received in the Merger generally may be sold in the public markets immediately following the Merger. Some LIN TV stockholders may sell their LIN TV class A common stock shortly before, or some LIN LLC shareholders may sell their LIN LLC class A common shares after the Merger, for any number of reasons. In particular, certain of LIN TV's stockholders may be subject to investment guidelines that require that a specified percentage of their portfolio be investments that are not taxed as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or may simply not wish to hold LIN LLC class A common shares. In addition, holders of LIN LLC class A common shares may sell their shares because of the amount of taxable income they may otherwise recognize as a result of the Merger. The sale of a significant amount of LIN TV class A common stock, or the perception in the market that this will occur, may lower the market price of shares of LIN TV class A common stock. We expect to incur transaction costs in connection with the completion of the Merger, some of which will be incurred whether or not the Merger is completed. We incurred in 2012 and we expect to continue to incur in 2013 a total of approximately $5 to $7 million in transaction costs in connection with the Merger and the JV Sale Transaction, including, among others, financial and tax advisory fees and expenses, legal fees, printing and mailing costs associated with the preparation of a proxy statement/prospectus. The majority of these costs will be incurred regardless of whether the Merger is completed and prior to our stockholders' vote at the special meeting. Further, the Merger and the other transactions described in this report may also result in certain indirect costs by diverting the attention of our management and employees from our business and by increasing our administrative costs and expenses. Although as a result of the JV Sale Transaction none of LIN TV or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries has any further obligations (funding or otherwise) under the GECC Note, the GECC Guarantee or related to SVH, the Transaction Agreement contains certain ongoing indemnification obligations of each party that could result in future liabilities to us. Each of LIN TV, LIN Television and LIN Texas made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the JV Sale Transaction Agreement for the benefit of the other parties to the agreement, including, among others, representations and warranties with respect to the ownership of the interest in SVH, the power and authority to enter into the JV Sale Transaction Agreement and any consents that may have been necessary to complete the transactions contemplated thereby. The JV Sale Transaction Agreement also contains certain ongoing indemnification obligations of each party (including LIN TV, LIN Television and LIN Texas) to the other parties relating to the representations, warranties and covenants of each party and if we (or LIN Television or LIN Texas) are 26 Table of Contents found to be in breach of any applicable representations, warranties and covenants it could result in future liabilities to us in favor of the other parties. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $843.9 million of consolidated net debt, which is equal to the difference between total debt and the sum of unrestricted and restricted cash, and $91.6 million of total LIN TV stockholders' deficit. In addition, in connection with the JV Sale Transaction, we borrowed $25 million under our revolving credit facility and entered into a new $60 million incremental term facility under our existing senior secured credit facility in January and February 2013, respectively. The outstanding revolving credit loans and term loans under our senior secured credit facility which were $5 million and $125 million, respectively, as of March 15, 2013, and are due October 26 2017 and the outstanding incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility were $317.4 million as of March 15, 2013 and are due on December 21, 2018. The outstanding Senior Notes (as defined below), which were $200 million and $290 million as of March 15, 2013 are due on April 15, 2018 and January 15, 2021, respectively. Subject to the limitations in our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, we may incur additional material indebtedness in the future, and we may become more leveraged. Accordingly, we now have and will continue to have significant debt service obligations. Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example: •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; •require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •expose us to greater interest rate risk, because the interest rates on our senior secured credit facility vary; and •impair our ability to successfully withstand a sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. The indentures governing our Senior Notes also contain change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Any of these consequences relating to such debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. We could fail to comply with our financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt instruments require us to comply with financial covenants, including, among others, leverage ratios. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Weak results of operations due to reduced advertising revenues may make it harder for us to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Our debt instruments also contain certain other restrictions on our business and operations, including, for example, covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions and engage in mergers or consolidations. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. The outstanding revolving credit loans and term loans under our secured credit facility are due October 26, 2017 and the outstanding incremental term loans under our senior secured credit facility are due December 21, 2018. Our outstanding Senior Notes are due on April 15, 2018 and January 15, 2021, respectively. If we do not refinance, redeem or discharge our Senior Notes on or prior to January 15, 2018, then, in such event, the maturity of the incremental term loan facility will be accelerated from December 21, 2018 to January 15, 2018. While we expect to refinance, redeem, or discharge all of the outstanding Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, we can provide no assurances that this will occur. Our inability to refinance our Senior Notes prior to January 15, 2018, and the resulting acceleration of the incremental term loans would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial condition. Economic conditions have been challenging and the continuation or worsening of such conditions could further reduce consumer confidence and have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Poor economic conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive industry, which is a significant source of our advertising revenue. Additionally, financial institutions, capital providers, or other consumers may be adversely affected. Potential consequences of any economic decline, among others, include: •the financial condition of those companies that advertise on our stations may be adversely affected and could result in a significant decline in our advertising revenue; •our ability to pursue the acquisition of attractive television and non-television assets may be limited if we are unable to obtain any necessary additional capital on favorable terms, if at all; •our ability to pursue the divestiture of certain television and non-television assets at attractive values may be limited; •our ability to refinance our existing debt on terms and at interest rates we find attractive, if at all, may be impaired; •impairment charges to our intangible assets and/or goodwill; and •our ability to make certain capital expenditures may be significantly impaired. We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Future impairment charges could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results of operations. Approximately $725.7 million, or 58.5%, of our total assets as of December 31, 2012 consisted of indefinite-lived intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill, which are required to be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and other intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $1.6 million impairment charge to a broadcast license recorded within discontinued operations. 28 Table of Contents If we determine in a future period, as part of our testing for impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Our strategy has historically included growth through acquisitions, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions, our liquidity, and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, with the goal of improving our business. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage, debt service requirements, future performance-based purchase obligations and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls or increase revenues as a result of any acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management's attention from the operation of our core business. Certain acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. HMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from your interests, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a block of substantial voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of our other stockholders. HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common stock, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, which may be subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, the class C common stock will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common stock. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 43.1% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. For example, HMC may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may from time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 29 Table of Contents Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined beneficially own all of our class C common stock and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Equity Fund V, L.P.; Sector Performance Fund, L.P.; and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Europe Fund L.P., which are sponsored by HMC. The three listed funds do not have an investment in us. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite television and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. As a result, we are experiencing increased competition for viewing audience and advertisers. Significant declines in viewership and advertising revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations. The television broadcasting business is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations. In addition, the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to do so could aggressively compete with our business. It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common stock. Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common stock and all of the shares of our class B common stock. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power of our class C common stock held by affiliates of Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B stock into class A stock or class C stock, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common stock. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common stock. The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming. In some cases, we make cash payments to certain networks. 30 Table of Contents Some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of shares having 50% or more of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common stock shares held by them into shares of either class A common stock or class C common stock, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. The majority of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to make cash payments to the network and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: (i) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station's viewing audience; (ii) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; (iii) costs of building a new or larger news operation; (iv) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and (v) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station's programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network's share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network's programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station. Changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the national broadcast networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial conditions and results of operations of our stations. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our management or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our management and other key employees. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to develop and retain management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able 31 Table of Contents to retain our key personnel. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry The FCC's Spectrum Incentive Auctions proceeding could result in the reallocation of broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband use, which could materially impair our ability to provide competitive services. Pursuant to The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, on March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a staff report titled, "Connecting America: The National Broadband Plan" (the "NBP"). Among the many far-reaching recommendations contained in the 375-page NBP is that the FCC reallocate 120 MHz of spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services by means of, among other things, amending the FCC's technical rules to reduce television station service areas and distance separations, permitting channel sharing, conducting voluntary "incentive" auctions for the return of television broadcast spectrum, and certain other voluntary and involuntary mechanisms. The NBP also recommended spectrum "repacking," pursuant to which certain stations would be required to move to new channels, and suggested the imposition of spectrum usage fees, which may require Congressional authorization. None of the NBP's recommendations related to television spectrum are self-effectuating; consequently, implementation of the recommendations would appear to require further action by the FCC or Congress, or both. On November 30, 2010, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to consider proposals to, among other things, implement rule changes that could facilitate channel sharing by television stations and shared use of current television broadcast spectrum by wireless broadband providers. In that proceeding, the FCC also sought comment on ways to improve VHF spectrum band television operations (VHF stations have experienced reception difficulties following the DTV transition), to encourage stations on UHF channels to move to VHF channels. On April 27, 2012, the FCC adopted rules establishing a framework for multiple full-service and Class A television stations operating within the same market to share a single 6 MHz television channel while retaining distinct station licenses and MVPD carriage rights. Under the FCC's new rules, only those stations participating in the future incentive auction will be eligible to enter into channel sharing arrangements of this type. Because the FCC has not yet implemented rules for the incentive auction, stations are not yet able to enter into channel sharing arrangements of this type. Accordingly, we cannot predict the impact that channel sharing among television stations will have on either the industry or our operations. This proceeding remains pending with respect to proposals to improve VHF band television operations and to enable shared use of television band spectrum with wireless broadband providers; we cannot predict its outcome or its impact on the industry or our operations. On February 17, 2012, Congress adopted legislation authorizing the FCC to direct a portion of auction proceeds to commercial users, including broadcasters, that voluntarily surrender some or all of their allotted spectrum for auction. The legislation, which the President subsequently signed into law, includes safeguards for broadcasters. In particular, the legislation requires the FCC to make all reasonable efforts to ensure that stations retain their existing coverage areas, prevents the FCC from forcing a broadcaster to move from a UHF to a VHF channel, and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable relocation expenses arising from repacking the television bands. On October 2, 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rule Making to implement the incentive auction statute. That proceeding remains pending. If the FCC requires some or all of our television stations to make involuntary changes to their operations, such as through frequency changes, reductions of service areas, and/or reductions of interference protection, our stations could suffer material adverse effects, including, but not limited to, substantial conversion costs, and reduction or loss of over-the-air signal coverage. We cannot predict the outcome of any FCC proceedings, including but not limited to the procedures for, or timing of, voluntary auctions and/or involuntary spectrum repacking. 32 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully negotiate future retransmission consent agreements and these negotiations may be further hindered by the interests of networks with whom we are affiliated or by statutory or regulatory developments. We may be unable to successfully renegotiate retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs when the current terms of these agreements expire. In addition, our affiliation agreements with some broadcast networks include certain terms that may affect our ability to permit MVPDs to retransmit our stations' signals containing network programming, and in some cases, we may lose the right to grant retransmission consent to such providers. If the broadcast networks withhold their consent to the retransmission of those portions of our stations' signals containing network programming we may be unable to successfully complete negotiations for new retransmission consent agreements. A majority of the networks require us to pay them compensation in exchange for permitting redistribution of network programming by MVPDs. Escalating payments to networks in connection with signal retransmission may adversely affect our operating results. If we lose the right to grant retransmission consent, we may be unable to satisfy certain obligations under our existing retransmission consent agreements with MVPDs and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Several cable system and DBS operators jointly petitioned the FCC to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to consider amending its retransmission consent rules. The FCC solicited public comment on the petition and subsequently released a notice of proposed rule making seeking public comment on whether it should amend its rules to: (i) modify its standards for "good faith" negotiations of retransmission consent agreements; (ii) enhance consumer notice obligations; and (iii) eliminate the FCC's network non-duplication and syndicated exclusivity rules. The proceeding is currently pending, and we cannot predict its outcome. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results. Federal regulation of the broadcasting industry limits our operating flexibility, which may affect our ability to generate revenue or reduce our costs. The FCC regulates our business, just as it does all other companies in the broadcasting industry. We must ask the FCC's approval whenever we need a new license, seek to renew, assign or modify a license, purchase a new station, sell an existing station or transfer the control of one of our subsidiaries that holds a license. Our FCC licenses, those of the stations that we service via sharing arrangements are critical to our operations; we cannot operate without them. We cannot be certain that the FCC will renew these licenses in the future or approve new acquisitions in a timely manner, if at all. If licenses are not renewed or acquisitions approved, we may lose revenue that we otherwise could have earned. In addition, Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters (including retransmission consent, spectrum allocation, media ownership and technological changes) that could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect the operation and ownership of our broadcast properties. (See Item 1. Business—"Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting"). 33 Table of Contents Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under sharing arrangements (such as LMAs, JSAs, SSAs and other similar agreements) may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under sharing arrangements, may require us to amend or terminate certain agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. Federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include limits on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market. Should the FCC liberalize media ownership rules, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators, which may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets. Should the television duopoly rule be relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or more of the stations in Austin, TX, Dayton, OH, Providence, RI, Albuquerque, NM, Savannah, GA, Topeka, KS and Youngstown, OH for which we currently provide programming, sales and/or other related services under sharing arrangements, as the case may be, and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations. Should we be unable to acquire the ownership of the stations currently serviced by LMAs, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our LMAs will be permitted beyond conclusion of the FCC's current review of the ownership rules. Should the FCC conclude, as part of its current review of its ownership rules, that SSAs, JSAs, and similar arrangements should be attributable for purposes of the media ownership rules, there is no assurance that the FCC would grandfather the non-attributable status of our existing agreements, and, as a result, we may be required to terminate these agreements. Any potential hostilities, natural disasters, cybersecurity threats, breaches of information technology security, terrorist attacks or other disruptions may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the U.S. becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities, is impacted by any significant natural disasters or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. In light of the increased dependence on digital technologies by public companies and the increasing frequency and severity of cyber incidents, we may be subject to cybersecurity risks or other breaches of information technology security. A breach of our cyber/data security measures could disrupt our normal business operations and affect our ability to control our assets, access information and limit communication with third parties. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 