Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business Activities The economic downturn will likely cause further reductions in our advertising revenues, and the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business and as a result we may not have sufficient funds to operate our business. Our operations and performance are materially affected by economic conditions, which have deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. The economic slowdown has adversely affected local and national advertising revenues across all of our stations, and this is likely to continue in 2009. The recent market turmoil and tightening of credit has also generally reduced consumer confidence, increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased pricing pressure on products and services, and has led to widespread reduction of global business activity. Uncertainty about recent economic conditions has resulted in decreased consumer spending and a significant decline in sales in several industries, including the automotive industry, from which we received approximately 24%, 28% and 26% of our advertising revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect continued decreased demand in other advertising categories, in addition to automotive, in 2009. These developments are likely to result in decreased revenues and weaker results of operations for us and, if they persist, and if we are unable to offset the decreased revenues by additional cost savings, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. A material reduction in cash flows and weakened financial condition could impair our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments, as more fully described below. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, we have a history of net losses and a substantial accumulated deficit. We had net losses of $830.4 million and $234.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2006, respectively, primarily as a result of impairment of our broadcast licenses and goodwill, and interest expense. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.2 billion. These losses may or may not recur, and our net losses and accumulated deficit may therefore continue indefinitely. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds to operate our business. The General Electric Capital Corporation (“GECC”) Note could result in significant liabilities, including (i) requiring us to make short term cash payments to the NBC Universal joint venture to fund interest payments, and (ii) triggering a change of control under our existing indebtedness, which would cause such existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. GECC provided debt financing for a joint venture between NBC Universal and us, in the form of an $815.5 million non-amortizing senior secured note due 2023 bearing interest at an initial rate of 8% per annum until March 2, 2013 and 9% per annum thereafter (the “GECC Note”). The GECC Note is an obligation of the joint venture. We have a 20% equity interest in the joint venture and NBC Universal has the remaining 80% equity interest, in which we and NBC Unverisal each have a 50% voting interest. NBC Universal operates the two television stations, KXAS-TV, an NBC affiliate in Dallas, and KNSD-TV, an NBC affiliate in San Diego, pursuant to a management agreement. NBC Universal and GECC are both majority-owned subsidiaries of General Electric Company. LIN TV has guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the GECC Note. We may be required to make cash payments to the joint venture to fund interest payments on the GECC Note. Current general economic pressures have negatively affected the operating results of the television stations in the joint venture, resulting in a decline in cash flows. Although the joint venture distributed cash to NBC Universal and us in the amount of $13 million, $12 million and $24 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, the cash distributions for 2008 included nonrecurring cash proceeds of $12.6 million from the sale of broadcast towers. The joint venture’s cash balances as of December 31, 2008 were $15.1 million. NBC Universal and we have agreed that the joint venture will not distribute any cash to either NBC Universal or us in 2009; and will use a portion of its existing cash balances to fund interest payments on the GECC Note in 2009. We have agreed to waive the requirement of the joint venture to maintain cash balances of at least $15 million. Additionally, NBC has agreed to defer payment of its 2008 and 2009 management fees. If the current decline in advertising expenditures continues, we believe the joint venture may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or from available cash balances to cover all of the interest payments due on the GECC Note in 2009. The annual interest expense on the GECC Note is $66.1 million. We estimate that the cash available to the joint venture will be in the range of $1 million to $5 million less than the amount needed to pay interest on the GECC Note during the fourth quarter of 2009. The actual cash shortfall could be greater than our current estimate. NBC Universal and we have agreed that if the joint venture does not have sufficient cash to cover 2009 interest payments on the GECC Note, we and NBC Universal will provide the joint venture with a shortfall loan on the basis of our percentage of economic interest in the joint venture. If we are required to fund a portion of a shortfall loan, we plan to use our available cash balances or available borrowings under our credit facility. In addition, if the joint venture experiences further cash shortfalls beyond 2009, we may decide to fund such cash shortfalls, or to cover such shortfalls through further loans or equity contributions to the joint venture. LIN TV’s guarantee of the GECC Note could cause other material adverse effects. The GECC Note is not an obligation of LIN TV or LIN Television or any of its subsidiaries. GECC’s only recourse, upon an event of default under the GECC Note, is to the joint venture, our equity interest in the joint venture and, after exhausting all remedies against the assets of the joint venture and the other equity interests in the joint venture, to LIN TV pursuant to its guarantee of the GECC Note. An event of default under the GECC Note will occur if the joint venture fails to make any scheduled interest payment within 90 days of the date due and payable, or to pay the principal amount on the maturity date. If the joint venture fails to pay interest on the GECC Note, and neither NBC Universal nor we make a shortfall loan to cover the interest payment within 90 days of the date due and payable, an event of default would occur and GECC could accelerate the maturity of the entire amount due under the GECC Note. Other than the acceleration of the principal amount upon an event of default, prepayment of the principal of the note is prohibited unless agreed upon by both NBC Universal and us. Under the terms of its guarantee of the GECC Note, LIN TV would be required to make a payment for an amount to be determined (the “Guarantee Amount”) upon occurrence of the following events: a) there is an event of default; b) neither NBC Universal or us remedy the default; and c) after GECC exhausts all remedies against the assets of the joint venture, the total amount realized upon exercise of those remedies is less than the $815.5 million principal amount of the GECC Note. Upon the occurrence of such events, the amount owed by LIN TV to GECC pursuant to the guarantee would be calculated as the difference between i) the total amount at which the joint venture’s assets were sold and ii) the principal amount and any unpaid interest due under the GECC Note. As of December 31, 2008, we estimated that the fair value of the television stations in the joint venture to be approximately $300 million less than the outstanding balance of the GECC note of $815.5 million. 19 Table of Contents We believe that it is remote that there would be an event of default and therefore an acceleration of the principal amount of the GECC Note during 2009, although there can be no assurances that such an event of default will not occur. There are no financial or similar covenants in the GECC Note and, since both NBC Universal and we have agreed to fund the 2009 interest payments if the joint venture is unable to do so, NBC Universal and we are able to control the occurrence of a default under the GECC Note. However, if an event of default under the GECC Note occurs, LIN TV, which conducts all of its operations through its subsidiaries, could experience material adverse consequences, including: · GECC, after exhausting all remedies against the joint venture, could enforce its rights under the guarantee, which could cause LIN TV to determine that LIN Television should seek to sell material assets owned by it in order to satisfy LIN TV’s obligations under the guarantee; · GECC’s initiation of proceedings against LIN TV under the guarantee, could result in material adverse consequences to LIN Television, which would cause an acceleration of LIN Television’s credit facility and other outstanding indebtedness; and · if the GECC Note is prepaid because of an acceleration on default or otherwise, we would incur a substantial tax liability of approximately $271.3 million related to our deferred gain associated with the formation of the joint venture. Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues, which can vary substantially from period-to-period based on many factors beyond our control, and which makes us vulnerable to economic downturns. Advertising volatility based on general and local economic conditions, and program ratings, affects our operating results and may make it difficult for us to repay our debt obligations, or cause the value of our common stock to decline. Advertising revenue, including local, national and political advertising revenues, consisted of approximately 90%, 92% and 95% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Local advertising revenues decreased 9% for the year ended December 31, 2008 and increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to their respective prior periods. National advertising revenues decreased 16% and 1% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, compared to their respective prior periods. Our ability to generate advertising revenues depends on factors such as: · national and local economic conditions; · the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; · the demographic characteristics of our markets; and · the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership or we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. We, and those on whom we rely for programming, may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests of our local markets. In addition, political advertising revenue from elections and advertising revenues from Olympic Games, which generally occur in the even years, create large fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. For example, during 2008, we had political advertising revenues of $47.0 million, compared to $6.1 million in the prior year, as discussed in Item 1. Business under “Seasonality of our Business”. 20 Table of Contents We depend to a significant degree on automotive advertising. Approximately 24%, 28% and 26% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations and affect the value of our common stock. Automotive advertising continues to be adversely affected by the continued difficulties experienced by the automotive industry. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, reduce our operating flexibility and put us at greater risk for default and acceleration of our debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $743.4 million of consolidated indebtedness and a deficit of $189.3 million of consolidated stockholders’ equity. Our outstanding debt under our credit facility is due November 14, 2011 and both of our 6½% Senior Subordinated Notes and 6½% Senior Subordinated Notes – Class B are due May 15, 2013. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. We have also guaranteed an $815.5 million note in connection with our joint venture with NBC Universal, as further described below. Accordingly, we will continue to have significant debt service obligations. Our large amount of indebtedness could, for example: · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; · require us to dispose of television stations or other assets at times or on terms that may be less advantageous than those we might otherwise be able to obtain; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; · expose us to greater interest rate risk, because the interest rates on our credit facility vary; and · impair our ability to successfully withstand a sustained downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. Our indentures also have change of control provisions which may require us to purchase all or a portion of our 6½% Senior Subordinated Notes and our 6½% Senior Subordinated Notes — Class B at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. We could fail to comply with one of our financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt instruments require us to comply with financial covenants, including, among others, leverage ratios and interest coverage tests. These covenants restrict the manner in which we conduct our business and may impact our operating results. Further, weak results of operations due to reduced advertising revenues may make it harder for us to comply with such covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in events of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness under our debt agreements or under other instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. In the past, we have obtained amendments with respect to compliance with financial ratio tests in our credit facility. Consents or amendments that may be required in the future may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, especially in the current economic environment. Additionally, our debt instruments also contain certain other covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, forcing us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, will be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Cash interest paid during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $48.8 million, $55.6 million and $61.8 million, respectively. Our required payments of principal were $202.0 million and $120.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We made no payments of principal during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity, sell assets or obtain additional financing. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, or refinance our indebtedness, or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to seek to restructure our remaining debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and the market, if any, for our debt. The economic downturn and deterioration of the credit markets may also impact our ability to refinance our debt or to refinance our debt on terms similar to our existing debt agreements. Our class A common stock may not continue to trade on the NYSE, which could reduce the value of an investment in us and make it more difficult to sell our shares. For our class A common stock to trade on the NYSE, we must continue to meet the listing standards of that exchange. Among other things, those standards require that our class A common stock maintain an average closing price of at least $1.00 and our average global market capitalization must equal or exceed $75 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. Our common stock has traded at prices near and below $1.00 since November 2008. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE announced that it was temporarily suspending the $1.00 minimum share price requirement until June 30, 2009. Nevertheless, as a result of our reduced stock price, our average global market capitalization declined below $75 million during December 2008. On January 8, 2009, we received written notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we are not in compliance with the average global market capitalization listing standard. As permitted by Section 802.02 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, within 45 days from its receipt of the NYSE’s written notice, we submitted a plan advising the NYSE of the actions we intend to take to bring us into compliance with the NYSE’s market capitalization standard within 18 months of the receipt of notice. Under the NYSE’s listing standards, the NYSE has 45 days to evaluate the plan. If the NYSE does not accept the plan, or if we are not able to perform under the plan, the NYSE may commence suspension and delisting procedures. Delisting of our common stock from the NYSE could hinder the ability to sell, or obtain an accurate quotation for the price of shares of our common stock. Delisting could also adversely affect the perception among investors of LIN TV and its prospects, which could lead to further declines in the market price of our common stock. Delisting would also make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital. We may have significant increases in our cash funding requirements of our pension plan, which would reduce our cash flow from operations. The volatility of the equity markets resulted in the fair value of our pension plan assets declining to $61.5 million as of December 31, 2008 from $86.0 million as of December 31, 2007. We contributed $3.0 million, $3.0 million and $1.6 million to our pension plan for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We anticipate contributing approximately $0.4 million to our pension plan in 2009 although we currently have no minimum funding requirements as defined by ERISA and federal tax laws. The continuing economic downturn and the disruptions in the financial markets could significantly increase the cash funding requirements of our pension plan and our pension expense in 2010 and thereafter. 22 Table of Contents We have a material amount of intangible assets and we have recorded substantial impairments of these assets. Future write-downs of intangible assets would reduce net income or increase net loss, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our class A common stock. Future impairment charges could significantly adversely impact our reported results of operations and stockholders’ equity. Approximately $547.3 million or 64% of our total assets as of December 31, 2008 consist of indefinite lived intangible assets. Intangible assets principally include broadcast licenses and goodwill. Financial Accounting Standard (“FAS”) 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS 142”), requires, among other things, that goodwill and certain other intangible assets be tested for impairment at least annually, with impairment being measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill or the intangible asset over its fair value. In addition, goodwill and intangible assets will be tested more often for impairment as circumstances warrant. We recorded an impairment of our broadcast licenses of $599.6 million and $222.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2006, respectively, and we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $420.9 million and $95.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2006, respectively. These impairments were primarily a result of the economic downturn during 2008 and the decline of our class A common stock during both years; and, during 2006 the departure of our former CEO. For further details see Note 6 – "Intangible Assets". If we determine in a future period as part of our testing for impairments of intangible assets and goodwill, that the carrying amount of our intangible assets exceeds the fair value of these assets, we may incur an impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the trading price of our class A common stock. Our strategy has historically included growth through acquisitions, which could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We have pursued and intend to selectively continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, subject to market conditions and the liquidity of our Company, with the goal of improving our business by applying our management’s business and growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets nor have the financial capacity to complete additional acquisitions. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisition. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls or increase revenues with respect to any acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our core business. In addition, acquisitions, such as television stations, are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. HMC and its affiliates, whose interests may differ from your interests, have approval rights with respect to significant transactions and could convert their equity interests in our Company into a majority of voting power, thereby reducing the voting power of our other shareholders. HMC and its affiliates own one share of our class C common stock, which represents 35% of our outstanding voting power, and also have the ability to convert shares of our non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, subject to FCC approval. Upon the conversion of the majority of the non-voting class B common stock into class A common stock, the class C common stock will automatically convert into an equal number of shares of class A common stock. If this occurs, affiliates of HMC would own approximately 45.7% of our voting equity interests and will effectively have the ability to elect the entire board of directors and to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of HMC and its affiliates may differ from the interests of our other stockholders and HMC and its affiliates could take actions or make decisions that are not in the best interests of our other stockholders. For example, HMC is in the business of making significant investments in existing or newly formed companies and may from time-to-time acquire and hold controlling or non-controlling interests in television broadcast assets that may directly or indirectly compete with our company for advertising revenues. In addition, HMC and its affiliates may from time-to-time identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions of television stations or other broadcast related businesses that may be complementary to our business and therefore such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 23 Table of Contents Moreover, Royal W. Carson, III, a director, and HMC, combined beneficially own all of our class C common stock and therefore possess 70% of the combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Carson and HMC together have the power to elect our entire board of directors and, through this control, to approve or disapprove any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. Mr. Carson has prior business relations with HMC. Mr. Carson is the President of Carson Private Capital Incorporated, an investment firm that sponsors funds-of-funds and dedicated funds that have invested substantially all of the net capital of these funds in private equity investment funds sponsored by firms like HMC or its affiliates. Mr. Carson also serves on an advisory board representing the interests of limited partners of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Equity Fund V, L.P.; Sector Performance Fund, L.P.; and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Europe Fund L.P., which are sponsored by HMC. The three listed funds do not have an investment in us. In addition, Peter S. Brodsky, one of our directors, is a partner of HMC. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment alternatives, such as cable, satellite television and telecommunications video services, Internet, wireless, pay-per-view and video-on-demand, digital video recorders, DVDs and mobile video devices have fragmented television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. As a result, we are experiencing increased competition for viewing audience and advertisers. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations. The television broadcasting business is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and the emergence of new technologies. We cannot predict the effect such technologies will have on our broadcast operations. In addition, the capital expenditures necessary to implement these new technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies before we are able to could aggressively compete with our business. It would be difficult to take us over, which could adversely affect the trading price of our class A common stock. Affiliates of HMC effectively have the ability to determine whether a change of control will occur through their ownership of one of the two outstanding shares of our class C common stock and all of the shares of our class B common stock. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and our bylaws and certificate of incorporation, including the 70% voting power rights of our class C common stock held by Mr. Carson and HMC and the voting power that affiliates of HMC would hold upon conversion of their shares of class B stock into class A stock or class C stock, make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit the holders of our class A common stock. These provisions and controlling ownership by affiliates of HMC could also adversely affect the public trading price of our class A common stock. The loss of network affiliation agreements or changes in network affiliations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to quickly replace the network affiliation. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement or a change in network affiliations could have a material adverse effect on us. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with up to 22 hours of prime time programming per week. In return, our stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming and, in some cases, receive cash payments from networks, and in other cases, we make cash payments to certain networks. In addition, some of our network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances, including as a result of a change of control of our Company, which would generally result upon the acquisition of 50% of our voting power. In the event that affiliates of HMC elect to convert our class B common stock shares held by them into shares of either class A common stock or class C common stock, such conversion may result in a change of control of our Company causing an early termination of some or all of our network affiliation agreements. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network compensation and, in specific cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to us on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation to our stations. If any of our stations cease to maintain affiliation agreements with networks for any reason, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. 24 Table of Contents A change in network affiliation in a given television market may have many short-term and long-term consequences, depending upon the circumstances surrounding the change. Potential short-term consequences include: a) increased marketing costs and increased internal operating costs, which can vary widely depending on the amount of marketing required to educate the audience regarding the change and to maintain the station’s viewing audience; b) short term loss of market share or slower market growth due to advertiser uncertainty about the switch; c) costs of building a new or larger news operation; d) other increases in station programming costs, if necessary; and e) the cost of equipment needed to conform the station’s programming, equipment and logos to the new network affiliation. Long-term consequences are more difficult to assess, due to the cyclical nature of each of the major network’s share of the audience that changes from year-to-year with programs coming to the end of their production cycle, and the audience acceptance of new programs in the future and the fact that national network audience ratings are not necessarily indicative of how a network’s programming is accepted in an individual market. How well a particular network fares in an affiliation switch depends largely on the value of the broadcast license, which is influenced by the length of time the television station has been broadcasting, the quality and location of the license, the audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station and the quality of the station non-network programming. In addition, the majority of the revenue earned by television stations is attributable to locally produced news and syndicated programming, rather than to network affiliation payments and advertising sales related to network programming. The circumstances that may surround a network affiliation switch cause uncertainty as to the actual costs that will be incurred by us and, if these costs are significant, the switch could have a material adverse impact on the income we derive from the affected station. The use of an alternative method of valuing our network affiliations could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Some broadcast companies may use different assumptions in valuing acquired broadcast licenses and their related network affiliations than those that we use. These different assumptions may result in the use of different valuation methods that can result in significant variances in the amount of purchase price allocated to these assets among broadcast companies. We believe that the value of a television station is derived primarily from the attributes of its broadcast license. These attributes include: · The scarcity of broadcast licenses assigned by the FCC to a particular market; · The length of time that the broadcast license has been broadcasting; · The quality of the broadcast signal and location of the broadcast station within the market; · The audience acceptance of the local news programming and community involvement of the local television station; and · The quality of non-network programming carried by a station. We generally have acquired broadcast licenses in markets with a number of commercial television stations equal to or less than the number of television networks seeking affiliates. The methodology we have used in connection with the valuation of the stations acquired is based on our evaluation of the broadcast licenses acquired and the characteristics of the markets in which they operated. We believed that in substantially all of our markets we would be able to replace a network affiliation agreement with little or no economic loss to the television station. As a result of this assumption, we ascribed no incremental value to the incumbent network affiliation in substantially all of the markets in which we operate, beyond the cost of negotiating a new agreement with another network and the value of any terms that were more or less favorable than those generally prevailing in the market. Other broadcasting companies have valued network affiliations on the basis that it is the affiliation and not the other attributes of the station, including its broadcast license, which contributes to the operating performance of that station. As a result, we believe that these broadcasting companies include in their network affiliation valuation amounts related to attributes that we believe are more appropriately reflected in the value of the broadcast license or goodwill. Some broadcasting companies believe that network affiliations are an important component of the value of a station. These companies believe that VHF stations are popular because they have been affiliating with networks from the inception of network broadcasts, stations with network affiliations have the most successful local news programming and the network affiliation relationship enhances the audience for local syndicated programming. As a result, these broadcasting companies allocate a significant portion of the purchase price for any station that they may acquire to the network affiliation relationship. If we were to adopt this alternative method for valuing network affiliations, the value of our broadcast licenses as reported on our balance sheet would be reduced and the value of network affiliations would be proportionately increased. As a result, our expenses relating to the amortization of intangible assets could increase significantly as more value would be assigned to an amortizing asset and this increase could materially reduce our operating income and net income. 25 Table of Contents In future acquisitions, the valuation of the broadcast licenses and network affiliations may differ from those attributable to our existing stations due to different factors and circumstances for each station and market being evaluated. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in impairments and write-offs that increase station operating costs. We may be exposed to future programming cost increases, which may adversely affect our operating results. Changes in FCC ownership rules through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation may limit our ability to continue providing services to stations under local marketing agreements, may prevent us from obtaining ownership of the stations we currently provide services to under local marketing agreements and/or may preclude us from obtaining the full economic value of one or more of our duopoly, or two-station operations upon a sale, merger or other similar transaction transferring ownership of such station or stations. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. In addition, federal law prohibits one company from owning broadcast television stations that collectively have service areas encompassing more than an aggregate 39% share of national television households. Ownership restrictions under FCC rules also include a variety of local limits on media ownership. The restrictions include an ownership limit of one television station in most medium and smaller television markets and two stations in most larger markets, known as the television duopoly rule. The regulations also include a prohibition on the common ownership of a newspaper and television station in the same market (newspaper-television cross-ownership), limits on common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market (radio-television station ownership) and limits on radio ownership of four to eight radio stations in a local market. Should the FCC liberalize media ownership rules, attractive opportunities may arise for additional television station and other media acquisitions. But these changes also create additional competition for us from other entities, such as national broadcast networks, large station groups, newspaper chains and cable operators who may be better positioned to take advantage of such changes and benefit from the resulting operating synergies both nationally and in specific markets. Should the television duopoly rule become relaxed, we may be able to acquire the ownership of one or both of the stations in Austin and Providence for which we currently provide programming, sales and other related services under local marketing agreements and for which we have purchase option agreements to purchase these stations. Should we be unable to do so, there is no assurance that the grandfathering of our local marketing agreements will be permitted beyond conclusion of the current further rule-making. We had net revenues of $17.2 million, or 4%, of our total net revenues, attributable to local marketing agreements for the year ended December 31, 2008. Any potential hostilities or terrorist attacks may affect our revenues and results of operations. If the U.S. becomes engaged in new, large scale foreign hostilities or if there is a terrorist attack against the U.S., we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and increased costs of providing news coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our expenses would increase as a result. Consequently, any related future loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 