Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO US A downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. While the global recovery continues, the pace of recovery remains sluggish and uneven geographically. Downside risks remain for 2012, including high unemployment, reduced consumer spending, high deficit spending from governments, turbulent financial markets (euro area) and tighter monetary policies (Emerging markets). The International Monetary Fund reported GDP growth figures for 2011 at approximately 3.8%. We believe that in the graphite electrode markets in which we compete, the capacity utilization rate was approximately 80% in both 2010 and 2011. While improved compared to 2009 levels, these lower than pre-crisis capacity utilization rates continued to adversely affect our financial position and results of operation for 2011. We are dependent on the global steel industry and also sell products used in the transportation, semiconductor, solar, petrochemical, electronics, and other industries which are susceptible to global and regional economic downturns. We sell our industrial materials products, which accounted for about 86% of our total net sales in 2011, primarily to the EAF steel production industry. Many of our other products are sold primarily to the transportation, solar, oil and gas exploration industries. These are global basic industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of contraction, growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic region. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. As a result of changes in economic conditions, demand and pricing for our products sold to these industries has fluctuated and in some cases declined significantly. Demand for our products sold to these industries may be adversely affected by improvements in our products as well as in the manufacturing operations of customers, which reduce the rate of consumption or use of our products. Our customers, including major steel producers, are experiencing and may continue to experience downturns or financial distress that could adversely impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable or to collect them on a timely basis. Sales volumes and prices of our products sold to these industries are impacted by the supply/demand balance as well as overall changes in demand, and growth of and consolidation within, the end markets for our products. In addition to the factors mentioned above, the supply/demand balance is affected by factors such as business cycles, rationalization, and increases in capacity and productivity initiatives within our industry and the end markets for our products, some of which factors are affected by decisions by us. The steel industry, in particular, has historically been highly cyclical and is affected significantly by general economic conditions. Significant customers for the steel industry include companies in the automotive, construction, appliance, machinery, equipment and transportation industries, all of which continue to be affected by the general economic downturn and the deterioration in financial markets, including severely restricted liquidity and credit availability. In addition, a continuation of the current difficult economic conditions may lead current or potential customers of our Engineered Solutions business to delay or reduce technology purchases or slow their adoption of new technologies. This may result in a continued reduction, or slower rate of recovery, of sales of our Engineered Solutions products and increased price competition, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to restrictive covenants under the Revolving Facility and expect to be subject to 21 Table of Contents restrictive covenants under any renewal or refinancing thereof. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt. The Revolving Facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: sell assets; incur, repay or refinance indebtedness; create liens; make investments or acquisitions; engage in mergers or acquisitions; pay dividends; or repurchase stock. The Revolving Facility also requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum senior secured leverage ratios. We cannot borrow under the Revolving Facility if the additional borrowings would cause us to breach the financial covenants. Our ability to continue to comply with applicable covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants contained in the Revolving Facility, unless waived, would be a default under the Revolving Facility. This would permit the lenders to terminate their commitments to extend credit under, and accelerate the maturity of, the Revolving Facility. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we were unable to repay our debt to the lenders and holders or otherwise obtain a waiver from the lenders and holders, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures; sell assets or businesses; limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, business plans regarding operations; obtain additional debt or equity financing; seek protection under applicable debtor protection statutes, or restructure or refinance debt. We expect that any renewal or refinancing of the Revolving Facility will contain covenants that may be as restrictive, or more restrictive, than the covenants contained in the Revolving Facility and would extend to the lenders thereunder remedies, in the event of any default, similar to those provided to the lenders under the Revolving Facility described above. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rate risks and exposures. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with operations in multiple countries. A substantial majority of our net sales are derived from sales outside the U.S., and a substantial majority of our operations and our total property, plant and equipment and other long- lived assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in multiple countries, including: Ÿ currency devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including impacts of transactions in various currencies, impact on translation of various currencies into dollars for U.S. reporting and financial covenant compliance purposes, and impacts on results of operations due to the fact that costs of our foreign subsidiaries are primarily incurred in local currencies while their products are primarily sold in dollars and euros; Ÿ imposition of or increase in customs duties and other tariffs; Ÿ imposition of or increase in currency exchange controls, including imposition of or increases in limitations on conversion of various currencies into dollars, euros, or other currencies, making of intercompany loans by subsidiaries or remittance of dividends, interest or principal payments or other payments by subsidiaries; 22 Table of Contents Ÿ imposition of or increase in revenue, income or earnings taxes and withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; Ÿ imposition of or increases in investment or trade restrictions by the U.S. or by non-U.S. governments or trade sanctions adopted by the U.S.; Ÿ inability to definitively determine or satisfy legal requirements, inability to effectively enforce contract or legal rights and inability to obtain complete financial or other information under local legal, judicial, regulatory, disclosure and other systems; and Ÿ nationalization or expropriation of assets, and other risks which could result from a change in government or government policy, or from other political, social or economic instability. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on us or that we would be able to mitigate such material adverse effects in the future. In addition to the factors noted above, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by inflation, deflation and stagflation in each country in which we have a manufacturing facility. We cannot assure you that future increases in our costs will not exceed the rate of inflation or the amounts, if any, by which we may be able to increase prices for our products. Our ability to grow and compete effectively depends on protecting our intellectual property. Failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect us. We believe that our intellectual property, consisting primarily of patents and proprietary know-how and information, is important to our growth. Failure to protect our intellectual property may result in the loss of the exclusive right to use our technologies. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality and restricted use agreements to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application or any such agreement. Patents are subject to complex factual and legal considerations. Accordingly, there can be uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of any particular patent. Therefore, we cannot assure you that: Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents now or hereafter owned by us, or that third parties have licensed to us or may in the future license to us, will not be circumvented, challenged or invalidated; Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents that third parties have non-exclusively licensed to us, or may non-exclusively license to us in the future, will not be licensed to others; or Ÿ any of the patents for which we have applied or may in the future apply will be issued at all or with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us. Moreover, patents, even if valid, only provide protection for a specified limited duration. We cannot assure you that agreements designed to protect our proprietary know-how and information will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our strategic alliance suppliers and customers, consultants, employees or others will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our relationships with them. In addition, effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be limited, unavailable or not applied for in the U.S. or in any of the foreign countries in which we operate. Further, we cannot assure you that the use of our patented technology or proprietary know-how or information does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property protection does not protect against technological obsolescence due to developments by others or changes in customer needs. The protection of our intellectual property rights may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others whom we believe have misappropriated our technology or have infringed upon our intellectual property rights, as well as by defending against misappropriation or infringement claims brought by 23 Table of Contents others against us. Our involvement in litigation to protect or defend our rights in these areas could result in a significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the related products, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. If necessary, we may seek licenses to intellectual property of others. However, we can give no assurance to you that we will be able to obtain such licenses or that the terms of any such licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for its intellectual property that is necessary for us to make or sell any of our products could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property. Our current and former manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements. We use and generate hazardous substances in our manufacturing operations. In addition, both the properties on which we currently operate and those on which we have ceased operations are and have been used for industrial purposes. Further, our manufacturing operations involve risks of personal injury or death. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to our current and former properties, neighboring properties, and our current raw materials, products, and operations. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and sometimes require evaluation and registration of the installation of costly pollution control or safety equipment or costly changes in operations to limit pollution or decrease the likelihood of injuries. It is also possible that the impact of such regulations on our suppliers could affect the availability and cost of our raw materials. In addition, we may become subject to potential material liabilities for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, for claims alleging personal injury or property damage resulting from exposure to or releases of hazardous substances, or for personal injury as a result of an unsafe workplace. Further, alleged noncompliance with or stricter enforcement of, or changes in interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, adoption of more stringent new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination or imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material. We may face risks related to greenhouse gas emission limitations and climate change. There is growing scientific, political and public concern that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) are altering the atmosphere in ways that are affecting, and are expected to continue to affect, the global climate. Legislators, regulators and others, as well as many companies, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. GHG emissions are regulated in the European Union via an Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”), aka a “Cap and Trade” program. In the United States, environmental regulations issued in 2009 and 2010 will require reporting of GHG emissions by defined industries, activities and suppliers, and will regulate GHG as a pollutant covered under the New Source Review, Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V Operating Permit programs of the Clean Air Act Amendments. It is possible that some form of regulation of GHG emissions will also be forthcoming in other countries in which we operate or market our products. Regulation of GHG emissions could impose additional costs, both direct and indirect, on our business, and on the businesses of our customers and suppliers, such as increased energy and insurance rates, higher taxes, new environmental compliance program expenses, including capital improvements, environmental monitoring, and the purchase of emission credits, and other administrative costs necessary to comply with current requirements and potential future requirements or limitations that may be imposed, as well as other unforeseen or unknown costs. To the extent that similar requirements and limitations are not imposed globally, such regulation may impact our ability to compete with companies located in countries that do not have such requirements or do not impose such limitations. The company may also realize a change in competitive position relative to industry peers, changes in prices received for products sold, and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for products produced by the company. The impact of any future GHG regulatory requirements on our global 24 Table of Contents business will be dependent upon the design of the regulatory schemes that are ultimately adopted and, as a result, we are unable to predict their significance to our operations at this point in time. The potential physical impacts of climate change on the company’s operations are uncertain and will likely be particular to the geographic circumstances. These physical impacts may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, and changing global average temperatures. For instance, the company’s Seadrift facility and those facilities supplying it, and the company’s Calais facility, are located in geographic areas less than 50 feet above sea level. As a result, any future rising sea levels could have an adverse impact on their operations and on their suppliers. Due to these uncertainties, any future physical effects of climate change may or may not adversely affect the operations at each of our production facilities, the availability of raw materials, the transportation of our products, the overall costs of conducting our business, and the company’s financial performance. We face certain litigation and legal proceedings risks that could harm our business. We are involved in various product liability, occupational, environmental, and other legal claims, demands, lawsuits and other proceedings arising out of or incidental to the conduct of our business. The results of these proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of these proceedings do not specify the relief or amount of damages sought. Therefore, as to a number of the proceedings, we are unable to estimate the possible range of liability that might be incurred should these proceedings be resolved against us. Certain of these matters involve types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We are dependent on supplies of raw materials and energy. Our results of operations could deteriorate if that supply is substantially disrupted for an extended period. We purchase raw materials and energy from a variety of sources. In many cases, we purchase them under short term contracts or on the spot market, in each case at fluctuating prices. The availability and price of raw materials and energy may be subject to curtailment or change due to: Ÿ limitations which may be imposed under new legislation or regulation; Ÿ supplier’s allocations to meet demand of other purchasers during periods of shortage (or, in the case of energy suppliers, extended cold weather); Ÿ interruptions or cessations in production by suppliers, and Ÿ market and other events and conditions. Petroleum and coal products, including decant oil, petroleum coke and pitch, our principal raw materials, and energy, particularly natural gas, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. We have in the past entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, derivative contracts and short duration fixed rate purchase contracts to effectively fix a portion of our exposure to certain products. A substantial increase in raw material or energy prices which cannot be mitigated or passed on to customers or a continued interruption in supply, particularly in the supply of decant oil, petroleum coke or energy, would have a material adverse effect on us. Seadrift could be impacted by the availability of low sulfur decant oil and the pricing of needle coke feedstocks. Seadrift uses low sulfur decant oil in the manufacture of needle coke. There is no assurance that Seadrift will always be able to obtain an adequate quantity of suitable feedstocks or that capital would be available to install equipment to allow for utilization of higher sulfur decant oil, which is more readily available in the United States, in the event that suppliers of lower sulfur decant oil were to become more limited in the future. Seadrift purchases approximately two million barrels of low sulfur decant oil annually. The prices paid by Seadrift for such feedstocks are governed by the market for heavy fuel oils, which prices can fluctuate widely for various reasons including, among other things, worldwide oil shortages and cold winter weather. The 25 Table of Contents substantial majority of Seadrift’s needle coke is used in the manufacture of graphite electrodes, the price of which is subject to rigorous industry competition thus restricting Seadrift’s ability to pass through raw material price increases. We engage in acquisitions and may encounter unexpected difficulties identifying, pricing or integrating these businesses. We have pursued growth, in part, through strategic acquisitions that are intended to complement or expand our businesses, and expect to continue to do so in the future. The success of this strategy will depend on our ability to identify, price, finance and complete these transactions. Success will also depend on our ability to integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions. We may encounter unexpected difficulties in completing and integrating acquisitions with our existing operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipated when we first entered into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our results of operations could deteriorate if our manufacturing operations were substantially disrupted for an extended period. Our manufacturing operations are subject to disruption due to extreme weather conditions, floods, hurricanes and tropical storms and similar events, major industrial accidents, cybersecurity attacks, strikes and lockouts, adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or changes in governmental enforcement policies, civil disruption, riots, terrorist attacks, war, and other events. We cannot assure you that no such events will occur. If such an event occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We have non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans and have had in the past, and may in the future have, foreign currency financial instruments and interest rate swaps and caps. The related gains and losses have in the past been, and may in the future be, significant. As part of our cash management, we have non-dollar denominated intercompany loans between our subsidiaries. These loans are deemed to be temporary and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans are recorded as currency gains / losses in other income (expense), net, on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Additionally, we have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, interest rate swaps and caps to attempt to manage interest rate expense. We have also in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, foreign currency financial instruments to attempt to hedge global currency exposures. We may purchase or sell these financial instruments, and open and close hedges or other positions, at any time. Changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates have in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in significant gains or losses with respect thereto. These instruments are marked-to-market monthly and gains and losses thereon are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. There may be volatility in our results of operations between quarters. Sales of our products fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to such factors as changes in economic conditions, changes in competitive conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns by customers, national vacation practices, changes in customer production schedules in response to seasonal changes in energy costs, weather conditions, strikes and work stoppages at customer plants and changes in customer order patterns including those in response to the announcement of price increases or price adjustments. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, volatility with respect to demand for and prices of our industrial material products, specifically graphite electrodes, both globally and regionally. We have also experienced volatility with respect to prices of raw materials and energy, and we expect to experience volatility in such prices in the future. Accordingly, results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. The graphite and carbon industry is highly competitive. Our market share, net sales or net income could decline due to vigorous price and other competition. Competition in the graphite and carbon products industry (other than, generally, with respect to new products) is based primarily on price, product 26 Table of Contents differentiation and quality, delivery reliability, and customer service. Electrodes, in particular, are subject to rigorous price competition. In such a competitive market, changes in market conditions, including customer demand and technological development, could adversely affect our competitiveness, sales and/or profitability. Competition with respect to new products is, and is expected to be, generally based primarily on product innovation, price, performance and cost effectiveness as well as customer service. Competition could prevent implementation of price increases, require price reductions or require increased spending on research and development, marketing and sales that could adversely affect us. We have significant deferred income tax assets in multiple jurisdictions, and we may not be able to realize any benefits from those assets. At December 31, 2011 we had $132.9 million of gross deferred income tax assets, of which $25.5 million required a valuation allowance. In addition, we had $123.2 million of gross deferred income tax liabilities. Our valuation allowance means that we do not believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. Until we determine that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred income tax assets, income tax benefits in each current period will be fully reserved. Our valuation allowance, which is predominantly in the U.S. tax jurisdiction, does not affect our ability and intent to utilize the deferred income tax assets as we generate sufficient future profitability. We are executing current strategies and developing future strategies, to improve sales, reduce costs and improve our capital structure in order to improve U.S. taxable income of the appropriate character to a level sufficient to fully realize these benefits in future years. Risks Relating to Our Securities To the extent that outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised or other equity awards are granted under our incentive plans, the ownership interests of our other stockholders will be diluted. We have issued in the past, and expect to issue in the future, stock options, restricted stock units and performance share award units to directors, executive officers and other key employees under our 2005 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan and other benefit plans. You may experience dilution upon the exercise of options to purchase shares of our common stock, or the issuance of future equity awards, granted under these equity incentive plans. Our stock price may be volatile due to the nature of our business as well as the nature of the securities markets, which could affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation which involves substantial costs and a diversion of those companies’ management’s attention and resources. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline or fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: Ÿ failure of net sales, results of operations or cash flows from operations to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; Ÿ recording of additional restructuring, impairment or other charges or costs; Ÿ downward revisions in revenue, earnings or cash flow estimates of securities analysts; Ÿ downward revisions or announcements that indicate possible downward revisions in the ratings on debt instruments that we may have outstanding from time to time, if any; Ÿ speculation in the press or investor perception concerning our industry or our prospects; and Ÿ changes in general capital market conditions. Forward Looking Statements This Report contains forward looking statements. In addition, we or our representatives have made or may make forward looking statements on telephone or conference calls, by webcasts or emails, in person, in presentations or written materials, or otherwise. These include statements about such matters as: expected future or targeted operational and financial 27 Table of Contents performance; growth rates and future production and sales of products that incorporate or that are produced using our products; changes in production capacity in our operations and our competitors’ or customers’ operations and the utilization rates of that capacity; growth rates for, future prices and sales of, and demand for our products and our customers products; costs of materials and production, including anticipated increases or decreases therein, our ability to pass on any such increases in our product prices or surcharges thereon, or customer or market demand to reduce our prices due to such decreases; changes in customer order patterns due to changes in economic conditions; productivity, business process and operational initiatives, and their impact on us; our position in markets we serve; financing and refinancing activities; investments and acquisitions that we have made or may make in the future and the performance of the businesses underlying such acquisitions and investments; employment and contributions of key personnel; employee relations and collective bargaining agreements covering many of our operations; tax rates; capital expenditures and their impact on us; nature and timing of restructuring charges and payments; strategic plans and business projects; regional and global economic and industry market conditions, the timing and magnitude of changes in such conditions and the impact thereof; interest rate management activities; currency rate management activities; deleveraging activities; rationalization, restructuring, realignment, strategic alliance, raw material and supply chain, technology development and collaboration, investment, acquisition, venture, operational, tax, financial and capital projects; legal proceedings, contingencies, and environmental compliance including any regulatory initiatives with respect to greenhouse gas emissions which may be proposed; consulting projects; potential offerings, sales and other actions regarding debt or equity securities of us or our subsidiaries; and costs, working capital, revenues, business opportunities, debt levels, cash flows, cost savings and reductions, margins, earnings and growth. The words “will,” “may,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “target,” “goal,” “continue to,” “positioned to” and similar expressions, or the negatives thereof, identify some of these statements. Our expectations and targets are not predictors of actual performance and historically our performance has deviated, often significantly, from our expectations and targets. Actual future events and circumstances (including future results and trends) could differ materially, positively or negatively, from those set forth in these statements due to various factors. These factors include: Ÿ the possibility that additions to capacity for producing EAF steel, increases in overall EAF steel production capacity, and increases or other changes in steel production may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or may not be as geographically disbursed as we anticipate; Ÿ the possibility that increases or decreases in graphite electrode manufacturing capacity (including growth by producers in developing countries), competitive pressures (including changes in, and the mix, distribution, and pricing of, their products), reduction in specific consumption rates, increases or decreases in customer inventory levels, or other changes in the graphite electrode markets may occur, which may impact demand for, prices or unit and dollar volume sales of graphite electrodes and growth or profitability of our graphite electrodes business; Ÿ the possible failure of changes in EAF steel production or graphite electrode production to result in stable or increased, or offset decreases in, graphite electrode demand, prices, or sales volume; Ÿ the possibility that a determination that we have failed to comply with one or more export controls or trade sanctions to which we are subject with respect to products or technology exported from the United States or other jurisdictions or the denial of export privileges to which our recently acquired business, Fiber Materials Inc., is subject could result in civil or criminal penalties, including imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges and loss of revenues from certain customers; 28 Table of Contents Ÿ the possibility that, for all of our product lines, capital improvement and expansion in our customers’ operations and increases in demand for their products may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or the demand for their products may decline, which may affect their demand for the products we sell or supply to them; Ÿ the possibility that continued global consolidation of the world’s largest steel producers could impact our business or industry; Ÿ the possibility that average graphite electrode revenue per metric ton in the future may be different than current spot or market prices due to changes in product mix, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in competitive market conditions or other factors; Ÿ the possibility that price increases, adjustments or surcharges may not be realized or that price decreases may occur; Ÿ the possibility that current challenging economic conditions and economic demand reduction may continue to impact our revenues and costs; Ÿ the possibility that the current debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of European customers; Ÿ the possibility that the European debt crisis could contribute to further instability in global credit markets; Ÿ the possibility that decreases in prices for energy and raw materials may lead to downward pressure on prices for our products and delays in customer orders for our products as customers anticipate possible future lower prices; Ÿ the possibility that increases in prices for our raw materials and the magnitude of such increases, global events that influence energy pricing and availability, increases in our energy needs, or other developments may adversely impact or offset our productivity and cost containment initiatives; Ÿ the possibility that current economic disruptions may result in idling or permanent closing of blast furnace capacity or delay of blast furnace capacity additions or replacements which may affect demand and prices for our refractory products; Ÿ the possibility that economic, political and other risks associated with operating globally, including national and international conflicts, terrorist acts, political and economic instability, civil unrest, and natural or nuclear calamities might interfere with our supply chains, customers or activities in a particular location; Ÿ the possibility that reductions in customers’ production, increases in competitors’ capacity, competitive pressures, or other changes in other markets we serve may occur, which may impact demand for, prices of or unit and dollar volume sales of, our other products, or growth or profitability of our other product lines, or change our position in such markets; Ÿ the possibility that we will not be able to hire and retain key personnel, maintain appropriate relations with unions, associations and employees or to renew or extend our collective bargaining or similar agreements on reasonable terms as they expire or do so without a work stoppage or strike; Ÿ the possibility that an adverse determination in litigation pending in Brazil involving disputes related to the proper interpretation of certain collectively bargained wage increase provisions applicable to both us and other employers in the Bahia region might result in the filing of claims against our Brazilian subsidiary; Ÿ the possibility of delays in or failure to achieve successful development and commercialization of new or improved engineered solutions or that such solutions could be subsequently displaced by other products or technologies; 29 Table of Contents Ÿ the possibility that we will fail to develop new customers or applications for our engineered solutions products; Ÿ the possibility that our manufacturing capabilities may not be sufficient or that we may experience delays in expanding or fail to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet demand for existing, new or improved products; Ÿ the possibility that the investments and acquisitions that we make or may make in the future may not be successfully integrated into our business or provide the performance or returns expected; Ÿ the possibility that challenging conditions or changes in the capital markets will limit our ability to obtain financing for growth and other initiatives, on acceptable terms or at all; Ÿ the possibility that conditions or changes in the global equity markets may have a material impact on our future pension funding obligations and liabilities on our balance sheet; Ÿ the possibility that the amount or timing of our anticipated capital expenditures may be limited by our financial resources or financing arrangements or that our ability to complete capital projects may not occur timely enough to adapt to changes in market conditions or changes in regulatory requirements; Ÿ the possibility that the actual outcome of uncertainties associated with assumptions and estimates using judgment when applying critical accounting policies and preparing financial statements may have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position; Ÿ the possibility that we may be unable to protect our intellectual property or may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in damages, limitations on our ability to produce or sell products or limitations on our ability to prevent others from using that intellectual property to produce or sell products; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to legal proceedings or compliance programs; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to health, safety or environmental compliance or remediation obligations or liabilities to third parties or relating to labor relations; Ÿ the possibility that new or expanded regulatory initiatives with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, if implemented, could have an impact on our facilities, increase the capital intensive nature of our business, and add to our costs of production of our products; Ÿ the possibility that our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate or cash tax rate may fluctuate significantly due to changes in applicable tax rates or laws, changes in the sources of our income, changes in tax planning, new or changing interpretations of applicable regulations, or changes in profitability, estimates of future ability to use foreign tax credits, and other factors; Ÿ the possibility of changes in interest or currency exchange rates, in competitive conditions, or in inflation or deflation; Ÿ the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by, among other things, changes in United States or other monetary or fiscal policies or regulations in response to the capital markets crisis and its impact on global economic conditions, developments in North Africa, the Middle East, North Korea, and other areas of concern, the occurrence of further terrorist acts and developments (including increases in security, insurance, data back-up, energy and transportation and other costs, transportation delays and continuing or increased economic uncertainty and weakness) resulting from terrorist acts and the war on terrorism; 30 Table of Contents Ÿ the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by changes in demand as a result of the effect on customers of the volatility in global credit and equity markets; Ÿ the possibility that interruption in our major raw material, energy or utility supplies due to, among other things, natural or nuclear disasters, process interruptions, actions by producers and capacity limitations, may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility that our key or other raw materials become unavailable and that the magnitude of changes in the cost of key and other raw materials, including petroleum based coke, by reason of shortages, market pricing, pricing terms in applicable supply contracts, or other events may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility of interruptions in production at our facilities due to, among other things, critical equipment failure, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility that we may not achieve the earnings or other financial or operational metrics that we provide as guidance from time to time; Ÿ the possibility that the anticipated benefits from organizational and work process redesign, changes in our information systems, or other system changes, including operating efficiencies, production cost savings and improved operational performance, including leveraging infrastructure for greater productivity and contributions to our continued growth, may be delayed or may not occur or may result in unanticipated disruption; Ÿ the possibility of security violations to the Company’s information technology systems; Ÿ the possibility that our disclosure or internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or personnel, that the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures related to those controls may deteriorate or that those controls may not operate effectively and may not prevent or detect misstatements or errors; Ÿ the possibility that delays may occur in the financial statement closing process due to a change in our internal control environment or personnel; Ÿ the possibility of changes in performance that may affect financial covenant compliance or funds available for borrowing; and Ÿ other risks and uncertainties, including those described elsewhere in this Report or our other SEC filings, as well as future decisions by us. Occurrence of any of the events or circumstances described above could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that any future transaction about which forward looking statements may be made will be completed or as to the timing or terms of any such transaction. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Except as otherwise required to be disclosed in periodic reports required to be filed by public companies with the SEC pursuant to the SEC’s rules, we have no duty to update these statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Ÿ Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents 