Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO US We are dependent on the global steel industry and also sell products to the transportation, semiconductor, petrochemical and other metals industries. Our results of operations may deteriorate during global and regional economic downturns. We sell graphite electrodes, which accounted for about 78% of our total net sales in 2006, primarily to the EAF steel production industry. Many of our other products are sold primarily to the transportation, semiconductor, petrochemical and other metals industries. These are global basic industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. As a result of changes in economic conditions, demand and pricing for our products sold to these industries has fluctuated significantly. Demand for our products sold to these industries may be adversely affected by improvements in our products as well as in the manufacturing operations of customers, which reduce the rate of consumption or use of our products for a given level of production by our customers. Sales volumes and prices of our products sold to these industries are impacted by the supply/demand balance as well as overall demand and growth of and consolidation within the end markets for our products. In addition to the factors mentioned above, the supply/demand balance is affected by factors such as business cycles, rationalization, increase in capacity and productivity initiatives within our industry and the end markets for our products, some of which factors are affected by decisions by us. We cannot assure you that the EAF steel production industry will continue to be the higher long term growth sector of the steel industry or that any of the other industries to which we sell products will continue to strengthen as a result of current economic conditions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that there will be stability or growth in demand for or prices of graphite electrodes or our other products sold to these industries. An adverse change in global or certain regional economic conditions could adversely affect us in a material way. We have significant leverage and our substantial debt and other obligations could limit our financial resources and ability to compete and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic events. Our significant leverage and other obligations could have important consequences, including the following: Ÿ our ability to restructure or refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, may be limited in the future; Ÿ a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service and payment of other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; Ÿ an increase in interest rates could result in an increase in the portion of our cash flow from operations dedicated to debt service in lieu of other purposes; Ÿ we may have substantially more leverage and other obligations than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and Ÿ our leverage and other obligations may hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions or a downturn in general or certain regional economic conditions or in our business. 21 Table of Contents Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other obligations as they become due. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet these obligations as they become due, we could be forced to: reduce or delay capital expenditures; sell assets or businesses; limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, business plans or operations; obtain additional debt or equity financing; seek protection under applicable debtor protection statutes, or restructure or refinance debt. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such actions or the amount of proceeds that could be realized from such actions. We are subject to restrictive covenants under the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt. The Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: sell assets; incur, repay or refinance indebtedness; create liens; make investments or acquisitions; engage in mergers or acquisitions; pay dividends; repurchase stock; or make capital expenditures. The Revolving Facility also requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum senior secured leverage ratios. We cannot borrow under the Revolving Facility if the additional borrowings would cause us to breach the financial covenants. Further, substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure indebtedness as described under “Risks Relating to Our Securities and Pledges of Our Assets.” Our ability to continue to comply with applicable covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants contained in the Revolving Facility, unless waived, would be a default under the Revolving Facility. This would permit the lenders to terminate their commitments to extend credit under, and accelerate the maturity of, the Revolving Facility. An acceleration of maturity of the Revolving Facility would permit the holders of the Senior Notes and the Debentures to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes and the Debentures, respectively. A breach of the covenants under the Senior Notes, unless waived, would be a default under the Senior Notes. This would also permit the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes. An acceleration of maturity of the Senior Notes would permit the holders of the Debentures to accelerate the maturity of the Debentures and the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the Revolving Facility. A breach of our obligations under the Debentures, unless waived, would be a default under the Debentures. This would also permit the holders of the Debentures to accelerate the maturity of the Debentures. Acceleration of maturity of the Debentures would permit the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes and the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the Revolving Facility. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we were unable to repay our debt to the lenders and holders or otherwise obtain a waiver from the lenders and holders, we could be forced to take the actions described in the preceding risk factor and the lenders and holders could proceed against the collateral securing the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes and exercise all other rights available to them. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments or that we will be able to obtain any such waiver on acceptable terms or at all. We are subject to risks associated with operations in multiple countries. A substantial majority of our net sales are derived from sales outside the U.S., and a substantial majority of our operations and our total property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in multiple countries, including: Ÿ currency devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including impacts of transactions in various currencies, impact on translation of various currencies into dollars for U.S. reporting and financial covenant compliance purposes, and impacts on results 22 Table of Contents of operations due to the fact that costs of our foreign subsidiaries are primarily incurred in local currencies while their products are primarily sold in dollars and euros; Ÿ creation of tax attributes in certain jurisdictions that we may not be able to utilize due to the lack of taxable income in relevant jurisdictions and creation of valuation allowances with respect to the related deferred tax assets due to changes in such circumstances and our estimates of the likely utilization of such assets; Ÿ imposition of or increase in customs duties and other tariffs; Ÿ imposition of or increase in currency exchange controls, including imposition of or increases in limitations on conversion of various currencies into dollars or euros, making of intercompany loans by subsidiaries or remittance of dividends, interest or principal payments or other payments by subsidiaries; Ÿ imposition of or increase in revenue, income or earnings taxes and withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; Ÿ imposition of or increases in investment or trade restrictions by non-U.S. governments or trade sanctions adopted by the U.S.; Ÿ inability to definitively determine or satisfy legal requirements, inability to effectively enforce contract or legal rights and inability to obtain complete financial or other information under local legal, judicial, regulatory, disclosure and other systems; and Ÿ Nationalization or expropriation of assets, and other risks which could result from a change in government or government policy, or from other political, social or economic instability. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on us or that we would be able to mitigate such material adverse effects in the future. In general, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by inflation in each country in which we have a manufacturing facility. We cannot assure you that future increases in our costs will not exceed the rate of inflation or the amounts, if any, by which we may be able to increase prices for our products. Our ability to grow and compete effectively depends on protecting our intellectual property. Failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect us. We believe that our intellectual property, consisting primarily of patents and proprietary know-how and information, including the intellectual property relating to electronic thermal management and fuel cell power generation, is important to our growth. Failure to protect our intellectual property may result in the loss of the exclusive right to use our technologies. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality and restricted use agreements to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application or any such agreement. Patents are subject to complex factual and legal considerations. Accordingly, there can be uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of any particular patent. Therefore, we cannot assure you that: Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents now or hereafter owned by us, or that third parties have licensed to us or may in the future license to us, will not be circumvented, challenged or invalidated; Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents that third parties have non-exclusively licensed to us, or may non-exclusively license to us in the future, will not be licensed to others; or Ÿ any of the patents for which we have applied or may in the future apply will be issued at all or with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us. Moreover, patents, even if valid, only provide protection for a specified limited duration. 23 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that agreements designed to protect our proprietary know-how and information will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our strategic alliance partners, consultants, employees or others will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our relationships with them. In addition, effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be limited, unavailable or not applied for in the U.S. or in any of the foreign countries in which we operate. Further, we cannot assure you that the use of our patented technology or proprietary know-how or information does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property protection does not protect against technological obsolescence due to developments by others or changes in customer needs. The protection of our intellectual property rights may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others whom we believe have misappropriated our technology or have infringed upon our intellectual property rights, as well as by defending against misappropriation or infringement claims brought by others against us. Our involvement in litigation to protect or defend our rights in these areas could result in a significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the related products, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. If necessary, we may seek licenses to intellectual property of others. However, we can give no assurance to you that we will be able to obtain such licenses or that the terms of any such licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for its intellectual property that is necessary for us to make or sell any of our products could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property. Our current and former manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements. We use and generate hazardous substances in our manufacturing operations. In addition, both the properties on which we currently operate and those on which we have ceased operations are and have been used for industrial purposes. Further, our manufacturing operations involve risks of personal injury or death. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to our current and former properties, neighboring properties, and our current operations. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and sometimes require the installation of costly pollution control or safety equipment or costly changes in operations to limit pollution or decrease the likelihood of injuries. In addition, we may become subject to potential material liabilities for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, for claims alleging personal injury or property damage resulting from exposure to or releases of hazardous substances, or for personal injury as a result of an unsafe workplace. Further, alleged noncompliance with or stricter enforcement of, or changes in interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, adoption of more stringent new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination or imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material. We face certain litigation and legal proceedings risks that could harm our business. We are involved in various product liability, occupational, environmental, and other legal claims, demands, lawsuits and other proceedings arising out of or incidental to the conduct of our business. The results of these proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of these proceedings do not specify the relief or amount of damages sought. Therefore, as to a number of the proceedings, we are unable to estimate the possible range of liability that might be incurred should these proceedings be resolved against us. Certain of these matters involve types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent on supplies of raw materials and energy at affordable prices. Our results of operations could deteriorate if that supply is substantially disrupted for an extended period. We purchase raw materials and energy from a variety of sources. In many cases, we purchase them under short term contracts or on the spot market, in each case at fluctuating prices. We purchase a majority of our requirements for petroleum coke, our principal raw material, from multiple plants of a single supplier under an evergreen supply agreement, containing customary terms and conditions, including price renegotiation, dispute resolution and termination provisions. The availability and price of raw materials and energy may be subject to curtailment or change due to: Ÿ limitations which may be imposed under new legislation or regulation; Ÿ supplier’s allocations to meet demand of other purchasers during periods of shortage (or, in the case of energy suppliers, extended cold weather); Ÿ interruptions or cessations in production by suppliers, and Ÿ market and other events and conditions. Petroleum and coal products, including petroleum coke and pitch, our principal raw materials, and energy, particularly natural gas, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. We have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, natural gas derivative contracts and short duration fixed rate purchase contracts to effectively fix some or all of our natural gas cost exposure. A substantial increase in raw material or energy prices which cannot be mitigated or passed on to customers or a continued interruption in supply, particularly in the supply of petroleum coke or energy, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations could deteriorate if our manufacturing operations were substantially disrupted for an extended period. Our manufacturing operations are subject to disruption due to extreme weather conditions, floods and similar events, major industrial accidents, strikes and lockouts, adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or changes in governmental enforcement policies, civil disruption, riots, terrorist attacks, war, and other events. We cannot assure you that no such events will occur. If such an event occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We have significant non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans and have had in the past, and may in the future have, foreign currency financial instruments and interest rate swaps and caps. The related gains and losses have in the past been, and may in the future be, significant. We have non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans between GrafTech Finance and some of our foreign subsidiaries. At December 31, 2005 and 2006, the aggregate principal amount of these loans was $414.6 million and $450.7 million, respectively. These loans are subject to remeasurement gains and losses due to changes in currency exchange rates. A portion of these loans are deemed to be essentially permanent and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ deficit section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The balance of these loans are deemed to be temporary and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans are recorded as currency (gains) losses in other expense (income), net, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains or losses have in the past been and may in the future be substantial. These gains and losses may cause reported results to differ from actual cash operating results, and such difference may be material. Additionally, we have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, interest rate swaps and caps to attempt to manage interest rate expense. We have also in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, foreign currency financial instruments to attempt to hedge global currency exposures, net, relating to euro-denominated debt and identifiable foreign currency receivables, payables and commitments held by our foreign and domestic subsidiaries. We may purchase or sell these financial instruments, and open and close hedges or other positions, at any time. Changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates have in the past 25 Table of Contents resulted, and may in the future result, in significant gains or losses with respect thereto. These instruments are marked-to-market monthly and gains and losses thereon are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. There may be volatility in our results of operations between quarters. Sales of graphite electrodes and other products fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to such factors as changes in economic conditions, changes in competitive conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns by customers, national vacation practices, changes in customer production schedules in response to seasonal changes in energy costs, weather conditions, strikes and work stoppages at customer plants and changes in customer order patterns in response to the announcement of price increases or price adjustments. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, volatility with respect to demand for and prices of graphite electrodes and other products, both globally and regionally. We have also experienced volatility with respect to prices of raw materials and energy, and we expect to experience volatility in such prices in the future. Accordingly, results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. The graphite and carbon industry is highly competitive. Our market share, net sales or net income could decline due to vigorous price and other competition. Competition in the graphite and carbon products industry (other than, generally, with respect to new products) is based primarily on product differentiation and quality, delivery reliability, price and customer service. Electrodes, in particular, are subject to rigorous price competition. Price increases by us or price reductions by our competitors, decisions by us or our competitors with respect to prices, volumes or profit margins, technological developments, changes in the desirability or necessity of entering into long term supply contracts with customers or other competitive or market factors or strategies could adversely affect our market share, net sales or net income. Competition with respect to new products is, and is expected to be, generally based primarily on product innovation, performance and cost effectiveness as well as customer service. Competition could prevent implementation of price increases, require price reductions or require increased spending on research and development, marketing and sales that could adversely affect us. To achieve our planned growth and successfully complete our overhead cost reduction and restructuring activities, we may need to attract qualified personnel. Failure to do so could adversely affect us. We are seeking to achieve further growth and additional cost-savings, and activities related thereto may require us to hire a substantial number of additional qualified personnel and promote or replace with new qualified personnel a substantial number of existing employees whose functions are changed, who elect not to relocate or who resign or are terminated for other reasons. Companies that experience rapid growth or substantial turnover in personnel frequently encounter higher costs and operating inefficiencies (which can adversely impact internal and disclosure control environments so as to result in errors, omissions and delays in financial statements and public reporting that may be material as well as adversely impact execution of business plans and financial performance) until the new personnel are integrated into the organization. If we are unable to hire, promote or replace employees with qualified personnel and effectively and quickly integrate them into our organization, our growth, business operations or finance, legal and administrative activities would likely be adversely affected. We may not be able to complete our planned asset sales. We intend to continue to sell real estate and certain other non-strategic assets. We cannot assure you if or when we will be able to complete these sales or that we will realize proceeds there from that meet our current expectations. We have significant deferred income tax assets in multiple jurisdictions, and we may not be able to realize any benefits from those assets. At December 31, 2006, we had $231.5 million of gross deferred income tax assets, of which $200.5 million required a valuation allowance. In addition we had $45.9 million of gross deferred income tax liabilities. Our 26 Table of Contents valuation allowance means that we do not believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. Until we determine that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred income tax assets, income tax benefits in each current period will be fully reserved. This valuation allowance does not affect our ability and intent to utilize these assets to reduce taxes on future taxable income. Future realization of the tax benefit from these tax assets depends on the existence of sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character within the relevant periods and jurisdictions under the existing tax laws. We cannot assure you of the existence of such sufficient taxable income. The planned growth of our natural graphite sales, which depends primarily on the successful and profitable development, manufacture and sale of thermal management products for electronic devices and products for PEM fuel cells and fuel cell systems, may not be achieved. Successful and profitable commercialization of products is subject to various risks, including risks beyond our control such as: Ÿ the possibility that we may not be able to develop viable products or, even if we develop viable products, that our products may not gain commercial acceptance; Ÿ the possibility that, until our products gain broad commercial acceptance, our sales may be concentrated in a limited number of customers; Ÿ the possibility that our commercially accepted products could be subsequently displaced by other products or technologies; Ÿ the possibility that, even if our products are incorporated in new products of our customers, our customers new products may not become viable or commercially accepted or may be subsequently displaced; Ÿ the possibility that a mass market for our commercially accepted products, or for our customers’ products which incorporate our products, may not develop; Ÿ restrictions under our agreements with Ballard Power Systems on sales of our fuel cell products to, and collaboration with, others; and Ÿ failure of our customers to purchase our products in the quantities that we expect. These risks could be impacted by factors such as adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in governmental programs, failure of necessary supporting systems (such as fuel delivery infrastructure for fuel cells) to be developed, and consumer perceptions about costs, benefits and safety. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES AND PLEDGES OF OUR ASSETS The Senior Notes and the related guarantees have limited security, and the Debentures and the related guarantees have no security. As a result, the Debt Securities are effectively subordinated to the Revolving Facility, which is secured by most of our assets, and to certain other secured debt and obligations. This could result in holders of the Debt Securities receiving less on liquidation than the lenders under the Revolving Facility and certain other creditors. In addition, this could result in holders of the Debentures receiving less on liquidation than the holders of the Senior Notes. The borrower under the Revolving Facility is GrafTech Finance. The Revolving Facility is guaranteed by all of our domestic subsidiaries (other than AET) and certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Substantially all of the assets of such subsidiaries (except for the unsecured inter-company term note obligations described below) are pledged to secure obligations of GrafTech Finance as borrower under the Revolving Facility, guarantees by such subsidiaries of the Revolving Facility or inter-company loans to such guarantors under the Revolving Facility. Proceeds of borrowings under the Revolving Facility are required to be: Ÿ used by GrafTech Finance for its own purposes; or Ÿ loaned by GrafTech Finance to GTI or certain of our other domestic subsidiaries or to our Swiss subsidiary under inter-company revolving notes that are pledged to secure the Revolving Facility. 27 Table of Contents In addition, other funds loaned by GrafTech Finance to our Swiss subsidiary are generally required to be loaned under such inter-company revolving notes. Proceeds of loans to our Swiss subsidiary are required to be: Ÿ used by our Swiss subsidiary for its own purposes, or Ÿ loaned by our Swiss subsidiary to our other foreign subsidiaries. Any such loans to our other foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Revolving Facility are guaranteed by most of such other foreign subsidiaries. Such loans and guarantees are secured by a pledge of most of the assets of such other foreign subsidiaries and are pledged by our Swiss subsidiary under the Revolving Facility. As a result, most of our assets are pledged in respect of the Revolving Facility. Unsecured intercompany term notes and unsecured guarantees of those unsecured intercompany term notes by certain of our foreign subsidiaries have been pledged by GrafTech Finance to secure the Senior Notes, subject to certain limitations. At December 31, 2006, the aggregate principal amount of unsecured intercompany term notes pledged to secure the Senior Notes equaled $275.3 million or about 63% of the aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes. The remaining unsecured intercompany term notes held by GrafTech Finance in an aggregate principal amount at December 31, 2006 of $267.7 million, and any pledged unsecured intercompany term notes that cease to be pledged due to a reduction in the principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes due to redemption, repurchase or other events, are not subject to any pledge and are available to satisfy the claims of creditors (including the lenders under the Revolving Facility, the holders of the Senior Notes and, pursuant to the guarantee by GrafTech Finance of the Debentures, the holders of the Debentures) of GrafTech Finance, as their interests may appear. The Senior Notes contain provisions restricting the pledge of those unsecured intercompany term notes to secure any debt or obligation. The foreign subsidiaries who are obligors under any of such unsecured intercompany term notes or the related guarantees are called “unsecured intercompany term note obligors” and their obligations thereunder are called “unsecured intercompany term note obligations.” The guarantees of the unsecured intercompany term notes by foreign subsidiaries that are pledged to secure the Senior Notes are limited as required to comply with applicable law. Many of these laws effectively limit the amount of the guarantee to the net worth of the foreign subsidiary guarantor or some portion thereof. Neither the Senior Notes nor the Debentures contain limitations on new secured intercompany term or revolving loans under the Revolving Facility to, or intercompany guarantees of such intercompany loans by, domestic or foreign subsidiaries, including foreign subsidiaries that are unsecured intercompany term note obligors, and domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of the Senior Notes and Debentures. The Senior Notes are guaranteed by GTI, UCAR Carbon and other U.S. subsidiaries (other than AET) that collectively hold a substantial majority of our U.S. operating assets. The Debentures are guaranteed by GrafTech Finance, UCAR Carbon and other U.S. subsidiaries (other than AET) that collectively hold a substantial majority of our U.S. operating assets. The obligors (including the guarantors) under the Senior Notes and the Debentures are the same. The guarantees of the Senior Notes and the Debentures are unsecured, except the guarantee of the Senior Notes by UCAR Carbon. Each of the obligors (including guarantors) under the Senior Notes and the Debentures is also an obligor (including a guarantor) under the Revolving Facility. The guarantee of the Senior Notes by UCAR Carbon is secured by a pledge of all of the shares of capital stock (constituting 97.5% of the outstanding shares of capital stock) of AET held by UCAR Carbon (called the “AET Pledged Stock”). While all of the AET Pledged Stock is pledged to secure the UCAR Carbon guarantee of the Senior Notes, at no time will the value of the pledged portion of the AET Pledged Stock exceed 19.99% of the principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes. Moreover, the pledge of the AET Pledged Stock is junior to the pledge of the same shares to secure the UCAR Carbon guarantee of the Revolving Facility. 28 Table of Contents None of our foreign subsidiaries has guaranteed the Senior Notes or the Debentures. The lenders and creditors whose debt and obligations are secured will have prior claims on our assets, to the extent of the lesser of the value of the assets securing, or the amount of, the respective debt or obligations. If we become bankrupt or insolvent or are liquidated or if maturity of such debt or obligations is accelerated, the secured lenders and creditors will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured party under applicable law and pursuant to the relevant agreements and instruments, including the ability to foreclose on and sell the assets securing such debt or obligations to satisfy such debt or obligations. If they exercise such remedies, it is possible that our remaining assets could be insufficient to repay in full the debts and obligations to creditors whose debt and obligations are unsecured, including holders of the Debentures and, to the extent that the Senior Notes are not repaid in full upon exercise of the remedies available to holders thereof as secured parties under applicable law and pursuant to the relevant agreement and instruments, the holders of the Senior Notes. We have a holding company structure. The issuer of the Senior Notes is a special purpose finance company. The issuer of the Debentures is our parent holding company. Accordingly, the Senior Notes and the Debentures are structurally subordinated to certain of our obligations. The issuer of the Debentures is our parent holding company. It is a holding company with no operations, limited assets (all of which are pledged to secure the Revolving Facility and substantial debt, liabilities and obligations. GrafTech Finance, the issuer of the Senior Notes, is a special purpose finance company with limited operations, limited assets (a substantial majority of which are pledged to secure the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes) and substantial debt. GrafTech Finance has made and may continue to make secured intercompany revolving loans to our Swiss subsidiary that is pledged under the Revolving Facility. At December 31, 2006, there were no such loans outstanding. To the extent that our Swiss subsidiary loans proceeds of such secured intercompany revolving loans to foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Revolving Facility, these loans will be secured, and guaranteed on a secured basis, by other such foreign subsidiaries and will be pledged under the Revolving Facility. A majority of our operations is conducted by, and a majority of our cash flow from operations is derived from, our foreign subsidiaries. The foreign subsidiaries that have issued unsecured intercompany term notes that are pledged to secure the Senior Notes are our operating subsidiaries in Mexico, South Africa and Switzerland and our holding company in France. The obligations of the holding company in France in respect of its unsecured intercompany term note are guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by our operating company in France engaged in the graphite electrode business. The unsecured intercompany term notes are guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by our operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and the holding company in France. Our advanced graphite materials operating subsidiary in Italy, our operating subsidiaries in Russia, AET and certain immaterial domestic and foreign operating and holding companies are neither guarantors of the Senior Notes or the unsecured intercompany term notes nor guarantors of the Debentures. GTI relies upon interest and principal payments on intercompany loans, as well as dividends, loans and advances from our subsidiaries, to generate the funds necessary to meet its debt service obligations with respect to the Debentures. GrafTech Finance relies upon interest and principal payments on intercompany loans, as well as loans, advances and contributions from GTI and our other subsidiaries, to generate the funds necessary to meet its debt service obligations with respect to the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes. GTI and our subsidiaries are separate entities that are legally distinct from each other. Our subsidiaries that are neither guarantors of the Senior Notes nor unsecured intercompany term note obligors have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay debt service on the Senior Notes or to make funds available for such payments. Our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Debentures have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, 29 Table of Contents to pay debt service on the Debentures or to make funds available for such payments. The ability of GTI and our subsidiaries to make these payments, loans, advances or contributions is subject to, among other things and to the extent applicable, their earnings and cash flows, their need for funds for business purposes, the covenants of their other debt, guarantees and obligations, and restrictions on dividends, distributions or repatriation of earnings under applicable corporate laws and foreign currency exchange regulations. The ability of the holders of the Senior Notes or the Debentures to realize upon the assets of any subsidiary that is neither a guarantor of the Senior Notes or the Debentures, respectively, nor, in the case of the Senior Notes only, an unsecured intercompany term note obligor in any liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings involving such subsidiary will be subject to the claims of their respective creditors, including their respective trade creditors, holders of their respective debt and their respective preferred stockholders. As a result, the Senior Notes and the Debentures are structurally subordinated to all existing and future debt and other obligations, including trade payables and obligations to preferred stockholders, of our subsidiaries that are neither guarantors of the Senior Notes or the Debentures, respectively, nor, in the case of the Senior Notes only, unsecured intercompany term note obligors. The ability of the issuers and guarantors of the Senior Notes and the Debentures to receive (and therefore the ability of the holders of the Senior Notes and the Debentures to participate in) the assets of any subsidiary upon liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings involving any such subsidiary will be subject to the claims of the holders of such debt and other obligations, including trade creditors and preferred stockholders. In addition, to the extent that the issuers and guarantors of the Senior Notes and the Debentures are creditors of any such subsidiary, whether as trade creditors, creditors under the unsecured intercompany term notes or otherwise, their rights as a creditor could be equitably subordinated to such claims. At December 31, 2006 the debt and liabilities of such subsidiaries totaled $45.9 million (including intercompany trade and miscellaneous liabilities of $40.4 million). Except as otherwise specifically stated, the financial information included in this Report is presented on a consolidated basis, including both our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. As a result, such financial information does not completely indicate the assets, liabilities or operations of each source of funds for payment of debt service on the Senior Notes or the Debentures. The provisions of the unsecured intercompany term note obligations can be changed, and the unsecured intercompany term notes can be prepaid in whole or in part, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes under certain circumstances. Prepayment would increase the structural subordination of the Senior Notes. Prepayment or changes in such provisions could reduce or eliminate the ability of holders of the Senior Notes to seek recovery directly from our foreign subsidiaries upon a default under the Senior Notes. In general, the unsecured intercompany term notes and the unsecured intercompany term note guarantees cannot be changed, and the unsecured intercompany term notes cannot be prepaid or otherwise discharged, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes. However, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes: Ÿ the interest rate, interest payment dates, currency of payment of principal and interest and currency in which an unsecured intercompany term note is denominated (subject to certain limitations) can be amended; Ÿ provisions of an unsecured intercompany term note obligation can be amended to comply with changes in applicable law, so long as such amendments do not change the enforceability, principal amount, stated maturity, average life, ranking or priority or prepayment provisions of an unsecured intercompany term note or the enforceability of or obligations guaranteed under an unsecured intercompany term note guaranty; and Ÿ an unsecured intercompany term note can be prepaid in whole or in part if the proceeds received by GrafTech Finance from such 30 Table of Contents prepayment are (i) invested in or loaned to a guarantor of the Senior Notes, (ii) loaned to another foreign subsidiary pursuant to an unsecured intercompany note that is pledged to secure the Senior Notes and is, to the extent permitted by applicable law, guaranteed by the unsecured intercompany term note obligors or (iii) applied to an offer to purchase Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The principal amount (expressed in dollars) of any unsecured intercompany term note that is not denominated in dollars could increase or decrease at any time due to changes in currency exchange rates. A reduction in the principal amount of one or more unsecured intercompany notes could increase the structural subordination of the Senior Notes, as described in the preceding risk factors, and reduce the ability of holders of the Senior Notes to realize upon the assets of our foreign subsidiaries upon a default under the Senior Notes. A change in the provisions of the unsecured intercompany note obligations could also limit such ability. In the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the subsidiary guarantors of the Senior Notes or the unsecured intercompany term note obligors, the guarantee of the Senior Notes by such guarantor or the unsecured intercompany term note and the unsecured intercompany term note guarantee of such obligor could be voided or subordinated. In the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the subsidiary guarantors of the Debentures, the guarantee of the Debentures by such guarantor could be voided or subordinated. In the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the subsidiary guarantors of the Senior Notes or the Debentures or any of the unsecured intercompany term note obligors, its guarantee, unsecured intercompany term note guarantee or unsecured intercompany term note could be subject to review under relevant fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer, equitable subordination and similar statutes and doctrines in a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or a lawsuit by or on behalf of creditors of that guarantor or obligor. Under those statutes and doctrines, a court could void or subordinate such subsidiary’s guarantee or note in certain circumstances. If the guarantee of a guarantor or the unsecured intercompany term note guarantee or unsecured intercompany term note of an unsecured intercompany term note obligor is voided or subordinated, holders of the Senior Notes, holders of the Debentures or both would effectively be subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of that guarantor or, in the case of holders of the Senior Notes, all indebtedness and other liabilities of that obligor. We may not have the ability to purchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control as required by the Senior Notes. We may not have the ability to purchase the Debentures upon a fundamental change or upon specified dates as required by the Debentures. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, we will be required to offer to purchase the outstanding Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence of certain fundamental change events, we will be required to offer to purchase the outstanding Debentures at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including liquidated damages). These events are the same under the Senior Notes and the Debentures, except that, in the case of the Debentures, these events also include the failure of the capital stock (or certain equivalents) into which they are convertible to be listed on a U.S. securities exchange or market and no offer to purchase is required to be made if certain trading price or transaction consideration thresholds are met. In addition, on January 15, 2011, January 15, 2014 and January 15, 2019, at the option of a holder of Debentures, such holder may require us to purchase some or all of its Debentures at the same purchase price. If such an event (including the exercise of such option) were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to pay the purchase price, and we expect that we would require third party financing to do so. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain this financing on favorable terms or at all. Upon the occurrence of certain of these events, we 31 Table of Contents may be required to repay all borrowings under the Revolving Facility or obtain the consent of the lenders under the Revolving Facility to purchase the Senior Notes and the Debentures. If we do not obtain such consent or repay such borrowings, we may be prohibited from purchasing the Senior Notes and the Debentures. In such case, our failure to purchase tendered Senior Notes or Debentures would constitute a default under the Senior Notes or the Debentures, respectively. If the holders of the Senior Notes or the Debentures were to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes or the Debentures, respectively, upon such default, the lenders under the Revolving Facility would have the right to terminate their commitment to extend credit under, and to accelerate the maturity of, the Revolving Facility. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial ability to purchase outstanding Senior Notes and Debentures and repay such borrowings upon the occurrence of any such event. The Senior Notes, the Debentures and the respective related guarantees rank equally with each other but may be effectively subordinated to certain of our other debt and liabilities. The Senior Notes and the related guarantees, and the Debentures and the related guarantees, are general unsecured obligations of the respective issuers and guarantors (except, in the case of the Senior Notes, as to the security provided in respect to AET shares and the senior intercompany term note obligations). Payments in respect thereof are effectively subordinated to all present or future secured indebtedness and obligations (including the secured obligations or guarantees in respect of the Revolving Facility to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness and obligations). GTI, GrafTech Finance and our other subsidiaries may, from time to time, incur additional debt including senior indebtedness and secured indebtedness, as well as other liabilities. As a result, holders of the Senior Notes and the Debentures may receive less upon liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings than they would have received if they had a more secured position. The value of the conversion right associated with the Debentures may be substantially lessened or eliminated if we are party to a merger, consolidation or other similar transaction. If we are party to a merger, consolidation, binding share exchange, sale, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of our assets or similar transaction pursuant to which our common stock is converted into, or into the right to receive, cash, securities or other property, then, at the effective time of the transaction, the right to convert a Debenture into our common stock will be changed into a right to convert into the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property which the holder would have received if the holder had converted its Debenture immediately prior to the transaction. This change could substantially lessen or eliminate the value of the conversion right associated with the Debentures. The conditional conversion feature of the Debentures could result in a holder receiving less than the value of the common stock into which a Debenture is convertible. The Debentures are convertible into our common stock only if specified conditions are met. If these conditions are not met, a holder will not be able to convert its Debentures, and a holder may not be able to receive the value of our common stock into which its Debentures would otherwise be convertible. A holder of Debentures is not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. Holders of Debentures are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including rights to vote, to receive dividends or other distributions and to participate in other transactions), but will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. A holder will have rights with respect to our common stock only if and when we deliver shares of our common stock to such holder upon conversion of its Debentures and, to a limited extent, by virtue of the conversion rate adjustments applicable to the Debentures. If a holder converts its Debenture near the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote, receive a dividend or distribution or participate in other transactions, it is possible that such record date could pass before such delivery is made. 32 Table of Contents The Debenture Indenture contains only limited covenants, which may not protect a holder’s investment if we experience significant adverse changes or engage in a highly leveraged transaction. The Debenture Indenture does not: Ÿ require us to maintain any financial ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity and, therefore, does not protect holders of the Debentures in the event that we experience significant adverse changes in our financial condition or performance; Ÿ limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness that is equal in right of payment to the Debentures; Ÿ restrict our ability to pledge our assets; Ÿ restrict our ability to pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our common stock or other securities ranking junior to the Debentures; Ÿ restrict our ability to make investments; or Ÿ restrict our ability to issue new securities. Such events may, however, result in an adjustment to the conversion rate applicable to the Debentures. Adjustments to the conversion rate applicable to the Debentures may result in a taxable distribution to a holder of Debentures. The conversion rate applicable to the Debentures will be adjusted if we distribute cash with respect to our common stock and in certain other circumstances. Under Section 305(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, an increase in the conversion rate as a result of our distribution of cash to common stockholders generally will result in a deemed distribution to a holder of Debentures. Other adjustments in the conversion rate (or failures to make such adjustments) that have the effect of increasing a holder’s proportionate interest in our assets or earnings may have the same result. Any deemed distribution to a holder will be subject to tax as a dividend to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Conversion or repurchase of Debentures into or with our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of other stockholders. In addition, to the extent that outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised or other equity awards are granted under our incentive plans, there will be further dilution. Our stock price may be volatile due to the nature of our business as well as the nature of the securities markets, which could affect the value of an investment in our common stock, the Debentures or the Senior Notes. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation which involves substantial costs and a diversion of those companies’ management’s attention and resources. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline or fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: Ÿ failure of net sales, results of operations or cash flows from operations to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; Ÿ recording of additional restructuring, impairment or other charges or costs; Ÿ downward revisions in revenue, earnings or cash flow estimates of securities analysts; Ÿ downward revisions or announcements that indicate possible downward revisions in the ratings on the Senior Notes or the Debentures; Ÿ speculation in the press or investor perception concerning our industry or our prospects; and Ÿ changes in general capital market conditions; FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report contains forward looking statements. In addition, we or our representatives have made or may make forward looking statements on telephone or conference calls, by webcasts or emails, in person, in presentations or written materials, or otherwise. These include statements about such matters as: growth rates and future production and sales of products that incorporate or that are produced using our 33 Table of Contents products; changes in production capacity in our operations and our customers’ operations; growth rates for, future prices and sales of, and demand for our products and our customers products; costs of materials and production, including anticipated increases therein; productivity, business process and operational initiatives, and their impact on us; our position in markets we serve; employment and contributions of key personnel; employee relations and collective bargaining agreements covering many of our operations; tax rates; capital expenditures and their impact on us; nature and timing of restructuring charges and payments; future operational and financial performance; strategic plans and business projects; regional and global economic and industry market conditions, changes in such conditions and the impact thereof, interest rate management activities; currency rate management activities; deleveraging activities; rationalization, restructuring, realignment, strategic alliance, raw material and supply chain, technology development and collaboration, investment, acquisition, venture, operational, tax, financial and capital projects; legal proceedings, contingencies, and environmental compliance; consulting projects; potential offerings, sales and other actions regarding debt or equity securities of us or our subsidiaries; and future asset sales, costs, working capital, revenues, business opportunities, debt levels, cash flows, cost savings and reductions, margins, earnings and growth. The words “will,” “may,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “target,” “goal,” “continue to” and similar expressions, or the negatives thereof, identify some of these statements. Actual future events and circumstances (including future results and trends) could differ materially from those set forth in these statements due to various factors. These factors include: Ÿ the possibility that additions to capacity for producing steel in electric arc furnaces (EAF), increases in overall EAF steel production capacity and increases in steel production may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or may not be as geographically disbursed as we anticipate; Ÿ possible failure of increased EAF steel production or stable graphite electrode production to result in stable or increased graphite electrode demand, prices or sales volume; Ÿ the possibility that increases in graphite electrode manufacturing capacity, competitive pressures, or other changes in the graphite electrode markets may occur, which may impact demand for, prices or unit and dollar volume sales of graphite electrodes and growth or profitability of our graphite electrode business; Ÿ the possibility that, for all of our product lines, capital improvement and expansion in our customers’ operations and increases in demand for their products may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate; Ÿ the possibility that continued global consolidation of the world’s largest steel producers could impact our business or industry; Ÿ the possibility that average graphite electrode revenue per metric ton in the future may be different than current market prices due to changes in product mix, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in competitive market conditions or other factors; Ÿ the possibility that price increases, adjustments or surcharges may not be realized; Ÿ the possibility that increases in prices for our raw materials and the magnitude of such increases, global events that influence energy pricing and availability, increases in our energy needs, or other developments may adversely impact or offset our productivity and cost containment initiatives; Ÿ the possibility that increases in capacity, competitive pressures, or other changes in other markets we serve may occur, which may impact demand for, prices of or unit and dollar volume sales of our other products or 34 Table of Contents growth or of profitability of our other product lines or change our position in such markets; Ÿ the possibility that we will not be able to hire and retain key personnel or to renew or extend our collective bargaining or similar agreements on reasonable terms as they expire or to do so without a work stoppage or strike; Ÿ the possibility of delays in or failure to achieve successful development and commercialization of new or improved electronic thermal management (ETM), or other products or that such products could be subsequently displaced by other products or technologies; Ÿ the possibility that we will fail to develop new customers or applications for our ETM products; Ÿ the possibility of delays in or failure to achieve widespread commercialization of fuel cells which use our natural graphite-based products or that manufacturers of PEM fuel cells may obtain those products from other sources; Ÿ the possibility that our manufacturing capabilities may not be sufficient or that we may experience delays in expanding or fail to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet demand for existing, new or improved products; Ÿ the possibility that the amount or timing of our anticipated capital expenditures may be limited by our financial resources or financing arrangements or that our ability to complete capital projects may not occur timely enough to adapt to changes in market conditions or changes in regulatory requirements; Ÿ the possibility that we may be unable to protect our intellectual property or may infringe the intellectual property rights of others; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to antitrust investigations, lawsuits or claims, other legal proceedings or compliance programs; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to health, safety or environmental compliance or remediation obligations or liabilities to third parties or relating to labor relations: Ÿ the possibility that our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate or cash tax rate may fluctuate significantly due to changes in applicable tax rates, changes in the sources of our income, changes in tax planning, new or changing interpretations in applicable regulations, profitability, estimates of future ability to use foreign tax credits, tax laws, and other factors; Ÿ the possibility of changes in interest or currency exchange rates, in competitive conditions, or in inflation; Ÿ the possibility that our high leverage, substantial debt and other obligations could limit our financial resources and ability to compete and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic events; Ÿ the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by, among other things, changes in interest rates by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board or other central banks, changes in fiscal policies by the U.S. and other governments, developments in the Middle East, North Korea, and other areas of concern, the occurrence of further terrorist acts and developments (including increases in security, insurance, data back-up, energy and transportation and other costs, transportation delays and continuing or increased economic uncertainty and weakness) resulting from terrorist acts and the war on terrorism; Ÿ the possibility that interruption in our major raw material, energy or utility supplies due to, among other things, natural disasters, process interruptions, actions by producers and 35 Table of Contents capacity limitations, may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility of interruptions in production at our facilities due to, among other things, critical equipment failure, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility that the timing and amount of expenditures that we anticipate in connection with our restructuring and plant closing activities may vary significantly from our expectations; Ÿ the possibility that we may not complete planned asset sales for amounts or at times anticipated or at all; Ÿ the possibility that we may not achieve the earnings or other financial or operational metrics that we provide as guidance from time to time; Ÿ the possibility that the anticipated benefits from organizational and work process redesign or other system changes, including operating efficiencies, production cost savings and improved operational performance, including leveraging infrastructure for greater productivity and contributions to our continued growth, may be delayed or may not occur; Ÿ the possibility that our disclosure or internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or personnel, that the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures related to those controls may deteriorate or that those controls may not operate effectively and may not prevent or detect misstatements or errors; Ÿ the possibility that delays may occur in the financial statement closing process due to a change in our internal control environment or personnel; Ÿ the possibility of changes in performance that may affect financial covenant compliance or funds available for borrowing; and Ÿ other risks and uncertainties, including those described elsewhere in this Report or our other SEC filings, as well as future decisions by us. Occurrence of any of the events or circumstances described above could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the market price of our common stock, the Senior Notes or the Debentures. No assurance can be given that any future transaction about which forward looking statements may be made will be completed or as to the timing or terms of any such transaction. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Except as otherwise required to be disclosed in periodic reports required to be filed by public companies with the SEC pursuant to the SEC’s rules, we have no duty to update these statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 