Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO US A prolonged downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining values of others. The global economy has entered a recession. Slowing, or declining, economic growth in the United States and elsewhere may cause our current or potential customers to delay or reduce purchases which could, in turn, result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition, materially and adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. We believe that in the graphite electrode markets in which we compete, the capacity utilization rate was over 95% for the first nine months of 2008. Due to the financial crisis and the global economic slowdown, however, operating rates fell dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2008 to an average of 70% and were estimated to be approximately 45% at year end 2008. These lower capacity utilization rates are expected to adversely affect our financial position and results of operations in 2009, with the extent of the adverse effect dependent upon how long the lower capacity utilization rates prevail and how quickly they recover. We are dependent on the global steel industry and also sell products to the transportation, semiconductor, solar, petrochemical and other metals industries which are susceptible to global and regional economic downturns. We sell our industrial materials products, which accounted for about 85% of our total net sales in 2008, primarily to the EAF steel production industry. Many of our other products are sold primarily to the transportation, solar, oil and gas exploration industries. These are global basic industries, and they are experiencing various degrees of growth and consolidation. Customers in these industries are located in every major geographic market. As a result, our customers are affected by changes in global and regional economic conditions. This, in turn, affects overall demand and prices for our products sold to these industries. As a result of changes in economic conditions, demand and pricing for our products sold to these industries has fluctuated significantly. Demand for our products sold to these industries may be adversely affected by improvements in our products as well as in the manufacturing operations of customers, which reduce the rate of consumption or use of our products. Our customers, including major steel producers, may experience economic downturns or financial distress that could adversely impact our ability to collect our accounts receivable or to collect them on a timely basis. Sales volumes and prices of our products sold to these industries are impacted by the supply/demand balance as well as overall demand and growth of and consolidation within the end markets for our products. In addition to the factors mentioned above, the supply/demand balance is affected by factors such as business cycles, rationalization, increase in capacity and productivity initiatives within our industry and the end markets for our products, some of which factors are affected by decisions by us. The steel industry, in particular, has historically been highly cyclical and is affected significantly by general economic conditions. Significant customers for the steel industry include companies in the automotive, construction, appliance, machinery, equipment and transportation industries all of which are being affected by the general economic downturn and the deterioration in financial markets, including severely restricted liquidity and credit availability. 20 Table of Contents In addition, deteriorating economic conditions may lead current or potential customers of our engineered solutions business to delay or reduce technology purchases or slow their adoption of new technologies. This may result in a slowing of the rate of growth, or a reduction, of sales of our engineered solutions products and increased price competition, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to restrictive covenants under the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes. These covenants could significantly affect the way in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with these covenants could lead to an acceleration of our debt. The Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: sell assets; incur, repay or refinance indebtedness; create liens; make investments or acquisitions; engage in mergers or acquisitions; pay dividends; repurchase stock; or make capital expenditures. The Revolving Facility also requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum senior secured leverage ratios. We cannot borrow under the Revolving Facility if the additional borrowings would cause us to breach the financial covenants. Further, substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure indebtedness as described under “Risks Relating to Our Securities and Pledges of Our Assets.” Our ability to continue to comply with applicable covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants contained in the Revolving Facility, unless waived, would be a default under the Revolving Facility. This would permit the lenders to terminate their commitments to extend credit under, and accelerate the maturity of, the Revolving Facility. An acceleration of maturity of the Revolving Facility would permit the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes. A breach of the covenants under the Senior Notes, unless waived, would be a default under the Senior Notes. This would also permit the holders of the Senior Notes to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes. An acceleration of maturity of the Senior Notes would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the Revolving Facility. The acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we were unable to repay our debt to the lenders and holders or otherwise obtain a waiver from the lenders and holders, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures; sell assets or businesses; limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, business plans regarding operations; obtain additional debt or equity financing; seek protection under applicable debtor protection statutes, or restructure or refinance debt. We are subject to risks associated with operations in multiple countries. A substantial majority of our net sales are derived from sales outside the U.S., and a substantial majority of our operations and our total property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in multiple countries, including: Ÿ currency devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including impacts of transactions in various currencies, impact on translation of various currencies into dollars for U.S. reporting and financial covenant compliance purposes, and impacts on results of operations due to the fact that costs of our foreign subsidiaries are primarily incurred in local currencies while their products are primarily sold in dollars and Euros; Ÿ imposition of or increase in customs duties and other tariffs; Ÿ imposition of or increase in currency exchange controls, including imposition of or increases in limitations on conversion of various currencies into dollars, Euros, or other currencies, making of intercompany loans by subsidiaries or remittance of dividends, interest or principal payments or other payments by subsidiaries; Ÿ imposition of or increase in revenue, income or earnings taxes and withholding and other 21 Table of Contents taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; Ÿ imposition of or increases in investment or trade restrictions by non-U.S. governments or trade sanctions adopted by the U.S.; Ÿ inability to definitively determine or satisfy legal requirements, inability to effectively enforce contract or legal rights and inability to obtain complete financial or other information under local legal, judicial, regulatory, disclosure and other systems; and Ÿ nationalization or expropriation of assets, and other risks which could result from a change in government or government policy, or from other political, social or economic instability. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on us or that we would be able to mitigate such material adverse effects in the future. In addition to the factors noted above, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by inflation, deflation and stagflation in each country in which we have a manufacturing facility. We cannot assure you that future increases in our costs will not exceed the rate of inflation or the amounts, if any, by which we may be able to increase prices for our products. Our ability to grow and compete effectively depends on protecting our intellectual property. Failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect us. We believe that our intellectual property, consisting primarily of patents and proprietary know-how and information, is important to our growth. Failure to protect our intellectual property may result in the loss of the exclusive right to use our technologies. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality and restricted use agreements to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application or any such agreement. Patents are subject to complex factual and legal considerations. Accordingly, there can be uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of any particular patent. Therefore, we cannot assure you that: Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents now or hereafter owned by us, or that third parties have licensed to us or may in the future license to us, will not be circumvented, challenged or invalidated; Ÿ any of the U.S. or foreign patents that third parties have non-exclusively licensed to us, or may non-exclusively license to us in the future, will not be licensed to others; or Ÿ any of the patents for which we have applied or may in the future apply will be issued at all or with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us. Moreover, patents, even if valid, only provide protection for a specified limited duration. We cannot assure you that agreements designed to protect our proprietary know-how and information will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our strategic alliance suppliers and customers, consultants, employees or others will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our relationships with them. In addition, effective patent, trademark and trade secret protection may be limited, unavailable or not applied for in the U.S. or in any of the foreign countries in which we operate. Further, we cannot assure you that the use of our patented technology or proprietary know-how or information does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property protection does not protect against technological obsolescence due to developments by others or changes in customer needs. The protection of our intellectual property rights may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others whom we believe have misappropriated our technology or have infringed upon our intellectual property rights, as well as by defending against misappropriation or infringement claims brought by others against us. Our involvement in litigation to protect or defend our rights in these areas could result in a 22 Table of Contents significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the related products, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. If necessary, we may seek licenses to intellectual property of others. However, we can give no assurance to you that we will be able to obtain such licenses or that the terms of any such licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for its intellectual property that is necessary for us to make or sell any of our products could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property. Our current and former manufacturing operations are subject to increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements. We use and generate hazardous substances in our manufacturing operations. In addition, both the properties on which we currently operate and those on which we have ceased operations are and have been used for industrial purposes. Further, our manufacturing operations involve risks of personal injury or death. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to our current and former properties, neighboring properties, and our current operations. These laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations and sometimes require the installation of costly pollution control or safety equipment or costly changes in operations to limit pollution or decrease the likelihood of injuries. In addition, we may become subject to potential material liabilities for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, for claims alleging personal injury or property damage resulting from exposure to or releases of hazardous substances, or for personal injury as a result of an unsafe workplace. Further, alleged noncompliance with or stricter enforcement of, or changes in interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, adoption of more stringent new laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination or imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could be material. We face certain litigation and legal proceedings risks that could harm our business. We are involved in various product liability, occupational, environmental, and other legal claims, demands, lawsuits and other proceedings arising out of or incidental to the conduct of our business. The results of these proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of these proceedings do not specify the relief or amount of damages sought. Therefore, as to a number of the proceedings, we are unable to estimate the possible range of liability that might be incurred should these proceedings be resolved against us. Certain of these matters involve types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We are dependent on supplies of raw materials and energy. Our results of operations could deteriorate if that supply is substantially disrupted for an extended period. We purchase raw materials and energy from a variety of sources. In many cases, we purchase them under short term contracts or on the spot market, in each case at fluctuating prices. We purchase a majority of our requirements for petroleum coke, our principal raw material, from multiple plants of a single supplier under an evergreen supply agreement, containing customary terms and conditions, including price renegotiation, dispute resolution and termination provisions. The availability and price of raw materials and energy may be subject to curtailment or change due to: Ÿ limitations which may be imposed under new legislation or regulation; Ÿ supplier’s allocations to meet demand of other purchasers during periods of shortage (or, in the case of energy suppliers, extended cold weather); Ÿ interruptions or cessations in production by suppliers, and Ÿ market and other events and conditions. Petroleum and coal products, including petroleum coke and pitch, our principal raw materials, and energy, particularly natural gas, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. 23 Table of Contents We have in the past entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, natural gas derivative contracts and short duration fixed rate purchase contracts to effectively fix some or all of our natural gas cost exposure. A substantial increase in raw material or energy prices which cannot be mitigated or passed on to customers or a continued interruption in supply, particularly in the supply of petroleum coke or energy, would have a material adverse effect on us. There may be significant risks associated with acquisition activities that we may elect to pursue. We may seek to acquire other companies or product lines which are complementary to our existing businesses and product lines or to add new businesses and product lines. Any such future acquisitions that we may elect to pursue will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such transactions. Such risks include, among others: Ÿ the difficulty of identifying appropriate acquisition candidates; Ÿ the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired entities; Ÿ the potential disruption of our ongoing business; Ÿ we may have to take on new debt or issue equity that could increase our leverage or dilute our stockholders’ equity interests; Ÿ our inability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by acquisitions; and Ÿ our failure to implement and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies at any acquired businesses. Further, to the extent that any such transaction may involve businesses located outside the United States, the transaction would involve the additional risks associated with international operations described above. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with any acquisitions we may pursue. Any failure to overcome these risks and successfully integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. See “We are subject to risks associated with operations in multiple countries.” Our results of operations could deteriorate if our manufacturing operations were substantially disrupted for an extended period. Our manufacturing operations are subject to disruption due to extreme weather conditions, floods and similar events, major industrial accidents, strikes and lockouts, adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or changes in governmental enforcement policies, civil disruption, riots, terrorist attacks, war, and other events. We cannot assure you that no such events will occur. If such an event occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We have significant non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans and have had in the past, and may in the future have, foreign currency financial instruments and interest rate swaps and caps. The related gains and losses have in the past been, and may in the future be, significant. We have non-dollar-denominated intercompany loans between GrafTech Finance and some of our foreign subsidiaries. At December 31, 2007 and 2008, the aggregate principal amount of these loans was $493.5 million and $558.4 million, respectively. These loans are subject to remeasurement gains and losses due to changes in currency exchange rates. Certain of these loans had been deemed to be essentially permanent prior to settlement and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans were recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The remaining loans are deemed to be temporary and, as a result, remeasurement gains and losses on these loans are recorded as currency gains / losses in other (income) expense, net, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These non-cash gains or losses have in the past been and may in the future be substantial. Additionally, we have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, interest rate swaps and caps to attempt to manage interest rate expense. We have also in the past entered into, and may in the future 24 Table of Contents enter into, foreign currency financial instruments to attempt to hedge global currency exposures, net, relating to Euro-denominated debt and identifiable foreign currency receivables, payables and commitments held by our foreign and domestic subsidiaries. We may purchase or sell these financial instruments, and open and close hedges or other positions, at any time. Changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates have in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in significant gains or losses with respect thereto. These instruments are marked-to-market monthly and gains and losses thereon are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. There may be volatility in our results of operations between quarters. Sales of our products fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to such factors as changes in economic conditions, changes in competitive conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns by customers, national vacation practices, changes in customer production schedules in response to seasonal changes in energy costs, weather conditions, strikes and work stoppages at customer plants and changes in customer order patterns including those in response to the announcement of price increases or price adjustments. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, volatility with respect to demand for and prices of our industrial material products, specifically graphite electrodes, both globally and regionally. We have also experienced volatility with respect to prices of raw materials and energy, and we expect to experience volatility in such prices in the future. Accordingly, results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. The graphite and carbon industry is highly competitive. Our market share, net sales or net income could decline due to vigorous price and other competition. Competition in the graphite and carbon products industry (other than, generally, with respect to new products) is based primarily on price, product differentiation and quality, delivery reliability, and customer service. Electrodes, in particular, are subject to rigorous price competition. In such a competitive market, changes in market conditions, including customer demand and technological development, could adversely affect GTI’s competitiveness, sales and/or profitability. Competition with respect to new products is, and is expected to be, generally based primarily on product innovation, price, performance and cost effectiveness as well as customer service. Competition could prevent implementation of price increases, require price reductions or require increased spending on research and development, marketing and sales that could adversely affect us. We have significant deferred income tax assets in multiple jurisdictions, and we may not be able to realize any benefits from those assets. At December 31, 2008 we had $146.4 million of gross deferred income tax assets, of which $42.9 million required a valuation allowance. In addition, we had $123.4 million of gross deferred income tax liabilities. Our valuation allowance means that we do not believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. Until we determine that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred income tax assets, income tax benefits in each current period will be fully reserved. Our valuation allowance does not affect our ability and intent to utilize the deferred income tax assets as we generate sufficient future profitability. We are executing current strategies and developing future strategies, to improve sales, reduce costs and improve our capital structure in order to improve U.S. taxable income of the appropriate character to a level sufficient to fully realize these benefits in future years. The current U.S. tax attributes, if utilized, will allow us to significantly reduce our cash tax obligations in the U.S. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES AND PLEDGES OF OUR ASSETS The Senior Notes and the related guarantees have limited security. As a result, the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to the Revolving Facility, which is secured by most of our assets, and to certain other secured debt and obligations. This could result in holders of the Senior Notes receiving less on liquidation than the lenders under the Revolving Facility and certain other creditors. 25 Table of Contents The borrower under the Revolving Facility is GrafTech Finance. The Revolving Facility is guaranteed by all of our domestic subsidiaries and certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Substantially all of the assets of such subsidiaries (except for the unsecured intercompany term note obligations described below) are pledged to secure obligations of GrafTech Finance as borrower under the Revolving Facility, guarantees by such subsidiaries of the Revolving Facility or intercompany loans to such guarantors under the Revolving Facility. Proceeds of borrowings under the Revolving Facility are required to be: Ÿ used by GrafTech Finance for its own purposes; or Ÿ loaned by GrafTech Finance to GTI or certain of our other domestic subsidiaries or to our Swiss subsidiary under intercompany revolving notes that are pledged to secure the Revolving Facility. In addition, other funds loaned by GrafTech Finance to our Swiss subsidiary are generally required to be loaned under such intercompany revolving notes. Proceeds of loans to our Swiss subsidiary are required to be: Ÿ used by our Swiss subsidiary for its own purposes, or Ÿ loaned by our Swiss subsidiary to our other foreign subsidiaries. Any such loans to our other foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Revolving Facility are guaranteed by most of such other foreign subsidiaries. Such loans and guarantees are secured by a pledge of most of the assets of such other foreign subsidiaries and are pledged by our Swiss subsidiary under the Revolving Facility. As a result, most of our assets are pledged in respect of the Revolving Facility. Unsecured intercompany term notes and unsecured guarantees of those unsecured intercompany term notes by certain of our foreign subsidiaries have been pledged by GrafTech Finance to secure the Senior Notes, subject to certain limitations. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate principal amount of unsecured intercompany term notes pledged to secure the Senior Notes equaled $8.0 million or about 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes. The remaining unsecured intercompany term notes held by GrafTech Finance in an aggregate principal amount at December 31, 2008 of $550.5 million, and any pledged unsecured intercompany term notes that cease to be pledged due to a reduction in the principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes due to redemption, repurchase or other events, are not subject to any pledge and are available to satisfy the claims of creditors (including the lenders under the Revolving Facility and the holders of the Senior Notes) of GrafTech Finance, as their interests may appear. The Senior Notes contain provisions restricting the pledge of those unsecured intercompany term notes to secure any debt or obligation. The foreign subsidiaries who are obligors under any of such unsecured intercompany term notes or the related guarantees are called “unsecured intercompany term note obligors” and their obligations thereunder are called “unsecured intercompany term note obligations.” The guarantees of the unsecured intercompany term notes by foreign subsidiaries that are pledged to secure the Senior Notes are limited as required to comply with applicable law. Many of these laws effectively limit the amount of the guarantee to the net worth of the foreign subsidiary guarantor or some portion thereof. The Senior Notes do not contain limitations on new secured intercompany term or revolving loans under the Revolving Facility to, or intercompany guarantees of such intercompany loans by, domestic or foreign subsidiaries, including foreign subsidiaries that are unsecured intercompany term note obligors, and domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are guaranteed by GTI, GTIH and other U.S. subsidiaries that collectively hold a substantial majority of our U.S. operating assets. The guarantees of the Senior Notes are unsecured, except the guarantee of the Senior Notes by GTIH. Each of the obligors (including guarantors) under the Senior Notes is also an obligor (including a guarantor) under the Revolving Facility. 26 Table of Contents The lenders and creditors whose debt and obligations are secured will have prior claims on our assets, to the extent of the lesser of the value of the assets securing, or the amount of, the respective debt or obligations. If we become bankrupt or insolvent or are liquidated or if maturity of such debt or obligations is accelerated, the secured lenders and creditors will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured party under applicable law and pursuant to the relevant agreements and instruments, including the ability to foreclose on and sell the assets securing such debt or obligations to satisfy such debt or obligations. If they exercise such remedies, it is possible that our remaining assets could be insufficient to repay in full the debts and obligations to creditors whose debt and obligations are unsecured, to the extent that the Senior Notes are not repaid in full upon exercise of the remedies available to holders thereof as secured parties under applicable law and pursuant to the relevant agreement and instruments, the holders of the Senior Notes. We have a holding company structure. The issuer of the Senior Notes is a special purpose finance company. Accordingly, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to certain of our obligations. GrafTech Finance, the issuer of the Senior Notes, is a special purpose finance company with limited operations, limited assets (a substantial majority of which are pledged to secure the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes) and substantial debt. GrafTech Finance has made and may continue to make secured intercompany revolving loans to our Swiss subsidiary that are pledged under the Revolving Facility. At December 31, 2008, there were no such loans outstanding. To the extent that our Swiss subsidiary loans proceeds of such secured intercompany revolving loans to foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the Revolving Facility, these loans will be secured, and guaranteed on a secured basis, by other such foreign subsidiaries and will be pledged under the Revolving Facility. A majority of our operations is conducted by, and a majority of our cash flow from operations is derived from, our foreign subsidiaries. The foreign subsidiaries that have issued unsecured intercompany term notes that are pledged to secure the Senior Notes are our operating subsidiaries in Mexico, South Africa and Switzerland and our holding company in France. The obligations of the holding company in France in respect of its unsecured intercompany term note are guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by our operating company in France engaged in the graphite electrode business. The unsecured intercompany term notes are guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by our operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and the holding company in France. Our engineered solutions operating subsidiary in Italy, our operating subsidiaries in Russia and certain immaterial domestic and foreign operating and holding companies are not guarantors of the Senior Notes or the unsecured intercompany term notes. GrafTech Finance relies upon interest and principal payments on intercompany loans, as well as loans, advances and contributions from GTI and our other subsidiaries, to generate the funds necessary to meet its debt service obligations with respect to the Revolving Facility and the Senior Notes. GTI and our subsidiaries are separate entities that are legally distinct from each other. Our subsidiaries that are neither guarantors of the Senior Notes nor unsecured intercompany term note obligors have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay debt service on the Senior Notes or to make funds available for such payments. The ability of GTI and our subsidiaries to make these payments, loans, advances or contributions is subject to, among other things and to the extent applicable, their earnings and cash flows, their need for funds for business purposes, the covenants of their other debt, guarantees and obligations, and restrictions on dividends, distributions or repatriation of earnings under applicable corporate laws and foreign currency exchange regulations. The ability of the holders of the Senior Notes to realize upon the assets of any subsidiary that is neither a guarantor of the Senior Notes nor an unsecured intercompany term note obligor in any liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings involving such subsidiary will be subject to the claims of their respective creditors, including their respective trade creditors, holders of their respective debt and their respective preferred stockholders. 27 Table of Contents As a result, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all existing and future debt and other obligations, including trade payables and obligations to preferred stockholders, of our subsidiaries that are neither guarantors of the Senior Notes nor unsecured intercompany term note obligors. The ability of the issuers and guarantors of the Senior Notes to receive (and therefore the ability of the holders of the Senior Notes to participate in) the assets of any subsidiary upon liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings involving any such subsidiary will be subject to the claims of the holders of such debt and other obligations, including trade creditors and preferred stockholders. In addition, to the extent that the issuers and guarantors of the Senior Notes are creditors of any such subsidiary, whether as trade creditors, creditors under the unsecured intercompany term notes or otherwise, their rights as a creditor could be equitably subordinated to such claims. Except as otherwise specifically stated, the financial information included in this Report is presented on a consolidated basis, including both our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. As a result, such financial information does not completely indicate the assets, liabilities or operations of each source of funds for payment of debt service on the Senior Notes. The provisions of the unsecured intercompany term note obligations can be changed, and the unsecured intercompany term notes can be prepaid in whole or in part, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes under certain circumstances. Prepayment would increase the structural subordination of the Senior Notes. Prepayment or changes in such provisions could reduce or eliminate the ability of holders of the Senior Notes to seek recovery directly from our foreign subsidiaries upon a default under the Senior Notes. In general, the unsecured intercompany term notes and the unsecured intercompany term note guarantees cannot be changed, and the unsecured intercompany term notes cannot be prepaid or otherwise discharged, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes. However, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes: Ÿ the interest rate, interest payment dates, currency of payment of principal and interest and currency in which an unsecured intercompany term note is denominated (subject to certain limitations) can be amended; Ÿ provisions of an unsecured intercompany term note obligation can be amended to comply with changes in applicable law, so long as such amendments do not change the enforceability, principal amount, stated maturity, average life, ranking or priority or prepayment provisions of an unsecured intercompany term note or the enforceability of or obligations guaranteed under an unsecured intercompany term note guaranty; and Ÿ an unsecured intercompany term note can be prepaid in whole or in part if the proceeds received by GrafTech Finance from such prepayment are (i) invested in or loaned to a guarantor of the Senior Notes, (ii) loaned to another foreign subsidiary pursuant to an unsecured intercompany note that is pledged to secure the Senior Notes and is, to the extent permitted by applicable law, guaranteed by the unsecured intercompany term note obligors or (iii) applied to an offer to purchase Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The principal amount (expressed in dollars) of any unsecured intercompany term note that is not denominated in dollars could increase or decrease at any time due to changes in currency exchange rates. A reduction in the principal amount of one or more unsecured intercompany notes could increase the structural subordination of the Senior Notes, as described in the preceding risk factors, and reduce the ability of holders of the Senior Notes to realize upon the assets of our foreign subsidiaries upon a default under the Senior Notes. A change in the provisions of the unsecured intercompany note obligations could also limit such ability. In the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the subsidiary guarantors of the Senior Notes or the 28 Table of Contents unsecured intercompany term note obligors, the guarantee of the Senior Notes by such guarantor or the unsecured intercompany term note and the unsecured intercompany term note guarantee of such obligor could be voided or subordinated. In the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of the subsidiary guarantors of the Senior Notes or any of the unsecured intercompany term note obligors, its guarantee, unsecured intercompany term note guarantee or unsecured intercompany term note could be subject to review under relevant fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer, equitable subordination and similar statutes and doctrines in a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or a lawsuit by or on behalf of creditors of that guarantor or obligor. Under those statutes and doctrines, a court could void or subordinate such subsidiary’s guarantee or note in certain circumstances. If the guarantee of a guarantor or the unsecured intercompany term note guarantee or unsecured intercompany term note of an unsecured intercompany term note obligor is voided or subordinated, holders of the Senior Notes would effectively be subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of that obligor. We may not have the ability to purchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control as required by the Senior Notes. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, we will be required to offer to purchase the outstanding Senior Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If such an event were to occur, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to pay the purchase price, and we expect that we would require third party financing to do so. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain this financing on favorable terms or at all. Upon the occurrence of certain of these events, we may be required to repay all borrowings under the Revolving Facility or obtain the consent of the lenders under the Revolving Facility to purchase the Senior Notes. If we do not obtain such consent or repay such borrowings, we may be prohibited from purchasing the Senior Notes. In such case, our failure to purchase tendered Senior Notes would constitute a default under the Senior Notes. If the holders of the Senior Notes were to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes upon such default, the lenders under the Revolving Facility would have the right to terminate their commitment to extend credit under, and to accelerate the maturity of, the Revolving Facility. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial ability to purchase outstanding Senior Notes and repay such borrowings upon the occurrence of any such event. The Senior Notes and the related guarantees may be effectively subordinated to certain of our other debt and liabilities. The Senior Notes and the related guarantees are general unsecured obligations of the issuers and guarantors (except, in the case of the senior intercompany term note obligations). Payments in respect thereof are effectively subordinated to all present or future secured indebtedness and obligations (including the secured obligations or guarantees in respect of the Revolving Facility to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness and obligations). GTI, GrafTech Finance and our other subsidiaries may, from time to time, incur additional debt including senior indebtedness and secured indebtedness, as well as other liabilities. As a result, holders of the Senior Notes may receive less upon liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings than they would have received if they had a more secured position. To the extent that outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised or other equity awards are granted under our incentive plans, the ownership interests of our other stockholders will be diluted. Our stock price may be volatile due to the nature of our business as well as the nature of the securities markets, which could affect the value of an investment in our common stock or the Senior Notes. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation which involves substantial costs and a diversion of those companies’ management’s 29 Table of Contents attention and resources. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline or fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: Ÿ failure of net sales, results of operations or cash flows from operations to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; Ÿ recording of additional restructuring, impairment or other charges or costs; Ÿ downward revisions in revenue, earnings or cash flow estimates of securities analysts; Ÿ downward revisions or announcements that indicate possible downward revisions in the ratings on the Senior Notes; Ÿ speculation in the press or investor perception concerning our industry or our prospects; and Ÿ changes in general capital market conditions. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report contains forward looking statements. In addition, we or our representatives have made or may make forward looking statements on telephone or conference calls, by webcasts or emails, in person, in presentations or written materials, or otherwise. These include statements about such matters as: expected future or targeted operational and financial performance; growth rates and future production and sales of products that incorporate or that are produced using our products; changes in production capacity in our operations and our competitors’ or customers’ operations and the utilization rates of that capacity; growth rates for, future prices and sales of, and demand for our products and our customers products; costs of materials and production, including anticipated increases or decreases therein, our ability to pass on any such increases in our product prices or surcharges thereon, or customer or market demand to reduce our prices due to such decreases; changes in customer order patterns due to changes in economic conditions; productivity, business process and operational initiatives, and their impact on us; our position in markets we serve; investments and acquisitions that we have made or may make in the future; employment and contributions of key personnel; employee relations and collective bargaining agreements covering many of our operations; tax rates; capital expenditures and their impact on us; nature and timing of restructuring charges and payments; strategic plans and business projects; regional and global economic and industry market conditions, changes in such conditions and the impact thereof; interest rate management activities; currency rate management activities; deleveraging activities; rationalization, restructuring, realignment, strategic alliance, raw material and supply chain, technology development and collaboration, investment, acquisition, venture, operational, tax, financial and capital projects; legal proceedings, contingencies, and environmental compliance; consulting projects; potential offerings, sales and other actions regarding debt or equity securities of us or our subsidiaries; and costs, working capital, revenues, business opportunities, debt levels, cash flows, cost savings and reductions, margins, earnings and growth. The words “will,” “may,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “target,” “goal,” “continue to” and similar expressions, or the negatives thereof, identify some of these statements. Our expectations and targets are not predictors of actual performance and historically our performance has deviated, often significantly, from our expectations and targets. Actual future events and circumstances (including future results and trends) could differ materially, positively or negatively, from those set forth in these statements due to various factors. These factors include: Ÿ the possibility that the challenging global economic conditions currently prevailing may lead to decreases in the demand for EAF steel which may, in turn, lead to a decrease in the demand for our graphite electrodes; Ÿ the possibility that additions to capacity for producing steel in electric arc furnaces (EAF), increases in overall EAF steel production capacity, and increases or other changes in steel production may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or may not be as geographically disbursed as we anticipate; 30 Table of Contents Ÿ the possibility that increases or decreases in graphite electrode manufacturing capacity (including growth by producers in developing countries), competitive pressures (including changes in and the mix, distribution, and pricing of their products), reduction in specific consumption rates, increases or decreases in customer inventory levels, or other changes in the graphite electrode markets may occur, which may impact demand for, prices or unit and dollar volume sales of graphite electrodes and growth or profitability of our graphite electrodes business; Ÿ the possible failure of changes in EAF steel production or graphite electrode production to result in stable or increased, or offset decreases in, graphite electrode demand, prices, or sales volume; Ÿ the possibility that, for all of our product lines, capital improvement and expansion in our customers’ operations and increases in demand for their products may not occur or may not occur at the rates that we anticipate or the demand for their products may decline; Ÿ the possibility that continued global consolidation of the world’s largest steel producers could impact our business or industry; Ÿ the possibility that average graphite electrode revenue per metric ton in the future may be different than current spot or market prices due to changes in product mix, changes in currency exchange rates, changes in competitive market conditions or other factors; Ÿ the possibility that price increases, adjustments or surcharges may not be realized or that price decreases may occur; Ÿ the possibility that current challenging economic conditions and economic demand reduction may impact our revenues and costs; Ÿ the possibility that decreases on prices for energy and raw materials may lead to downward pressure on prices for our products and delays in customer orders for our products as customers anticipate possible future prices; Ÿ the possibility that increases in prices for our raw materials and the magnitude of such increases, global events that influence energy pricing and availability, increases in our energy needs, or other developments may adversely impact or offset our productivity and cost containment initiatives; Ÿ the possibility that current economic disruptions may result in idling of blast furnace capacity or delay of blast furnace capacity additions which may affect demand and prices for our refractory products; Ÿ the possibility that reductions in customers’ production, increases in competitors’ capacity, competitive pressures, or other changes in other markets we serve may occur, which may impact demand for, prices of or unit and dollar volume sales of, our other products, or growth or profitability of our other product lines, or change our position in such markets; Ÿ the possibility that we will not be able to hire and retain key personnel or to renew or extend our collective bargaining or similar agreements on reasonable terms as they expire or to do so without a work stoppage or strike; Ÿ the possibility of delays in or failure to achieve successful development and commercialization of new or improved engineered solutions or that such solutions could be subsequently displaced by other products or technologies; Ÿ the possibility that we will fail to develop new customers or applications for our engineered solutions products; Ÿ the possibility that our manufacturing capabilities may not be sufficient or that we may experience delays in expanding or fail to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet 31 Table of Contents demand for existing, new or improved products; Ÿ the possibility that the investments and acquisitions that we make or may make in the future may not be successfully integrated into our business or provide the performance or returns expected; Ÿ the possibility that challenging conditions or changes in the capital markets will limit our ability to obtain financing for growth and other initiatives, on acceptable terms or at all; Ÿ the possibility that conditions or changes in the global equity markets may have a material impact on our future pension funding obligations and liabilities on our balance sheet; Ÿ the possibility that the amount or timing of our anticipated capital expenditures may be limited by our financial resources or financing arrangements or that our ability to complete capital projects may not occur timely enough to adapt to changes in market conditions or changes in regulatory requirements; Ÿ the possibility that we may be unable to protect our intellectual property or may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in damages, limitations on our ability to produce or sell products or limitations on our ability to prevent others from using that intellectual property to produce or sell products; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to legal proceedings or compliance programs; Ÿ the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances or changing interpretations and enforcement agendas relating to health, safety or environmental compliance or remediation obligations or liabilities to third parties or relating to labor relations; Ÿ the possibility that our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate or cash tax rate may fluctuate significantly due to changes in applicable tax rates or laws, changes in the sources of our income, changes in tax planning, new or changing interpretations of applicable regulations, or changes in profitability, estimates of future ability to use foreign tax credits, and other factors; Ÿ the possibility of changes in interest or currency exchange rates, in competitive conditions, or in inflation or deflation; Ÿ the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by, among other things, changes in United States or other monetary or fiscal policies or regulations in response to the capital markets crisis and its impact on global economic conditions, developments in the Middle East, North Korea, and other areas of concern, the occurrence of further terrorist acts and developments (including increases in security, insurance, data back-up, energy and transportation and other costs, transportation delays and continuing or increased economic uncertainty and weakness) resulting from terrorist acts and the war on terrorism; Ÿ the possibility that our outlook could be significantly impacted by changes in demand as a result of the effect on customers of the volatility in global credit and equity markets; Ÿ the possibility that interruption in our major raw material, energy or utility supplies due to, among other things, natural disasters, process interruptions, actions by producers and capacity limitations, may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility of interruptions in production at our facilities due to, among other things, critical equipment failure, which may adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products or result in higher costs; Ÿ the possibility that we may not achieve the earnings or other financial or operational metrics that we provide as guidance from time to time; 32 Table of Contents Ÿ the possibility that the anticipated benefits from organizational and work process redesign, changes in our information systems, or other system changes, including operating efficiencies, production cost savings and improved operational performance, including leveraging infrastructure for greater productivity and contributions to our continued growth, may be delayed or may not occur or may result in unanticipated disruption; Ÿ the possibility that our disclosure or internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or personnel, that the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures related to those controls may deteriorate or that those controls may not operate effectively and may not prevent or detect misstatements or errors; Ÿ the possibility that delays may occur in the financial statement closing process due to a change in our internal control environment or personnel; Ÿ the possibility of changes in performance that may affect financial covenant compliance or funds available for borrowing; and Ÿ other risks and uncertainties, including those described elsewhere in this Report or our other SEC filings, as well as future decisions by us. Occurrence of any of the events or circumstances described above could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the market price of our common stock or the Senior Notes. No assurance can be given that any future transaction about which forward looking statements may be made will be completed or as to the timing or terms of any such transaction. All subsequent written and oral forward looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Except as otherwise required to be disclosed in periodic reports required to be filed by public companies with the SEC pursuant to the SEC’s rules, we have no duty to update these statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Table of Contents 