Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Statements that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements about our future that are not statements of historical fact. Most of these statements are found in this report under the following subheadings: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “seek to,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “predicts,” “projects,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating them, you should carefully consider the information above, including in “— Known Trends and Uncertainties,” as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. 11 Table of Contents Reorganization of Our WhiteWave Foods Company Segment Could Temporarily Adversely Affect the Performance of the Segment In 2004, we began the process of consolidating the operations of the three operating units that comprise our WhiteWave Foods Company segment into a single business. During 2005, we appointed a new President of WhiteWave Foods Company, which was a key step in the development of a consolidated leadership team for the organization. We also completed the consolidation of the sales, marketing and research and development organization and began the process of integrating our supply chain. We consolidated most product manufacturing into five primary facilities, three of which were transferred from our Dairy Group in 2005, and we narrowed our network of co-packers. In 2006, we focused on streamlining our product portfolio, focusing on the most profitable opportunities, and on continuing to optimize our supply chain. On January 1, 2006, we transferred our Rachel’s Organic business in the United Kingdom from our former International division to WhiteWave Foods Company. In addition, in 2006 we installed the Silk and Horizon Organic brands and a portion of our plant network onto the SAP enterprise operating software platform. We expect to complete the installation of the remainder of our brands and production facilities in 2007. The implementation of the SAP platform across WhiteWave Foods Company will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manager our supply chain and business processes. Our failure to successfully manage this process could cause us to incur unexpected costs or to lose customers or sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Reorganization of Our Dairy Group Segment Could Temporarily Adversely Affect the Performance of the Segment In 2006, we started the process of realigning our Dairy Group segment in order to further streamline our organization, improve efficiency within our operations and better meet the needs of our customers. We are currently focused on reorganizing our purchasing, finance and other administrative functions to better leverage our scale, which we expect will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manage our business processes. Furthermore, we are in the process of consolidating our information technology systems, including the implementation of standard accounting and distribution software packages. Our failure to successfully manage this process could cause us to incur unexpected costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The Consolidation of Retail Customers May Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins and Profitability Our customers such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. These customers may use shelf space currently used for our products for their private label products. If we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. Availability and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us Raw skim milk is the most significant raw material that we use in our Dairy Group. Organic raw milk, organic soybeans and sugar are significant inputs utilized by WhiteWave Foods Company. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. In many cases we are able to adjust our pricing to reflect changes in raw material costs. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials can adversely affect our performance as price changes often lag changes in costs. These lags tend to erode our profit margins. Furthermore, cost increases may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers. Extremely high raw material costs also can put downward pressure on our margins and our volumes. We expect certain raw material prices, including raw skim milk prices, to increase in 2007. In the recent past, the industry-wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, our efforts to foster increased supply have increased overall industry supply which has eased the historical shortfall in supply. We are currently taking steps to increase consumer demand for our products to avoid a meaningful oversupply of raw organic milk; however, there can be no 12 Table of Contents assurance that the supply of raw organic milk in the market will not exceed demand in an amount that could exert downward pricing pressure on the sale of our products and negatively impact our profitability. Because our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to customers through its “direct store delivery” system, we are a large consumer of fuel. Similarly, our WhiteWave Foods business is impacted by the costs of petroleum-based products through the use of common carriers in delivering their products. The Dairy Group utilizes a significant amount of resin, which is the primary component used in our plastic bottles. Resin supplies have from time to time been insufficient to meet demand. Over the first nine months of 2006, the prices of resin and fuel increased before decreasing over the last three months of the year. Increases in fuel and resin prices can adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a disruption in our ability to secure an adequate resin supply could adversely affect our operations. Our Products Could Attract Increased Competitive Activity, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. The increase in popularity of soy and organic milks is also attracting private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. The success of private label brands could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other lower-priced products which could result in a reduction of sales. Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestlé CoffeeMate business, and our Hershey’s milks and milkshakes compete intensely with Nestlé Nesquik. Nestle has significantly greater resources than we do, which allows them to promote their products more aggressively. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestle could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight and/or our Hershey’s businesses. We May Experience Liabilities or Negative Effects on Our Reputation as a Result of Product Recalls, Product Injuries or Other Legal Claims We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of legal risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. 13 Table of Contents Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Borden®, Hershey’s, LAND O’LAKES, Pet®, and others. In some cases, we have invested significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See “Part II Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: • require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, • may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions, • impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, and • expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. The interest rate on certain of our debt is based on our debt rating, as issued by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. We have no ability to control the ratings issued by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. A downgrade in our debt rating could cause our interest rate to increase, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve our targeted profitability level, as well as our cash flow. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our net income. If we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit facilities, we may default under them. Upon default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 