Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Statements that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements about our future that are not statements of historical fact. Most of these statements are found in this report under the following subheadings: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “seek to,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “predicts,” “projects,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating them, you should carefully consider the information above, including in “— Known Trends and Uncertainties,” as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. Reorganization of Our WhiteWave Foods Company Segment Could Temporarily Adversely Affect the Performance of the Segment In 2004, we began the process of consolidating the operations of the three operating units that comprise our WhiteWave Foods Company segment into a single business. We are building a vertically integrated branded business with a focused product portfolio, efficient manufacturing processes and an optimal distribution system. During 2005, we appointed a new President of our business, which was a key step in the development of a consolidated leadership team for the organization. We also completed the consolidation of 12 Table of Contents the sales, marketing and research and development organization and the supply chain integration is in process. We consolidated most product manufacturing into five primary facilities, three of which were transferred from our Dairy Group in 2005, and we narrowed our network of co-packers. In 2006, we will continue to focus on streamlining our product portfolio, focusing on the most profitable opportunities, and on continuing to maximize our production and distribution processes. We are currently in the initial stages of implementing the SAP platform across the WhiteWave Foods Company, which we expect will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manage our supply chain and business processes. Our failure to successfully manage this process could cause us to incur unexpected costs or to lose customers or sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Recent Successes of Our Products Could Attract Increased Competitive Activity, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales and, in the Case of Organic Products, Put Pressure on the Availability of Raw Materials Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. The increase in popularity of soy and organic milks is also attracting private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. The success of private label brands could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Finally, there is a limited supply of organic raw materials in the United States, especially organic soybeans and organic raw milk. New entrants into our markets can reduce available supply and drive up costs. Even without new entrants, our own growth can put pressure on the availability and price of organic raw materials. Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestlé CoffeeMate business, and our Hershey’s milks and milkshakes compete intensely with Nestlé Nesquik. Nestle has significantly greater resources than we do, which allows them to promote their products more aggressively. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestle could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight and/or our Hershey’s businesses. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Borden®, Hershey’s, LAND O’LAKES, Pet®, and others. In some cases, we have invested significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See “Part II Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 13 Table of Contents We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our high debt level and related debt service obligations: • require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, • may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions, • impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions, and • expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. The interest rate on our debt is based on our debt rating, as issued by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. We have no ability to control the ratings issued by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. A downgrade in our debt rating could cause our interest rate to increase, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve our targeted profitability level, as well as our cash flow. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our net income. If we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit facilities, we may default under them. Upon default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 