Risk Factors Business, Competitive and Strategic Risks We may not realize anticipated benefits from our accelerated cost reduction efforts as expected. We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. In order to mitigate continued volume softness in our Fresh Dairy Direct segment, we expect to accelerate cost reduction activities in 2013 through, among other things, closing 10 – 15% of our plants. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to efficiently accelerate our cost reduction initiatives and execute our rationalization plan, the scope of which is significant, on time and within budget. We must be efficient in executing our plans to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. To capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to carefully evaluate future investments in our business, and concentrate on those areas with the most potential return on investment. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. The loss of, or reductions in sales volume from, any of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales and profits. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 22% of consolidated net sales during 2012. During 2012, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales. Historically, we have not generally entered into written agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. In January 2013, as a result of an RFP, we were advised that a significant customer decided to transfer a meaningful portion of its business to other suppliers beginning in 2013, which we expect to result in low-single digit net fluid milk volume declines in the Fresh Dairy Direct business during 2013, and we are not able to predict the long-term effects of this volume loss on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the loss of volume from this RFP may be more significant than we expect, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. Furthermore, the loss of, or further declines in sales volumes from, any of our large customers for an extended period of time could negatively impact our sales and profits, particularly due to our significant fixed asset base, which may not be easily reduced in response to significant volume declines. Past price concessions on fluid milk to large format retailers have negatively impacted, and continued price concessions could negatively impact, our operating margins and profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large-format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re-dedicated 15 Table of Contents key shelf-space currently occupied by our regionally branded products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. In the past, retailers have at times pushed us for price concessions, which has negatively impacted our margins, and continued pressures to make such price concessions could negatively impact our profitability in the future. In addition, the fluid milk category continued to experience low pricing on private label milk during 2012. If we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected by the decrease in margin. Volume softness in the dairy category has had a negative impact on our sales and profits. Industry-wide volume softness across dairy product categories continued in 2012. In particular, the fluid milk category has experienced declining volumes over the past several years. Decreasing dairy category volume has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the price increases that we can seek to recapture. We expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future, which could further negatively affect our business. In addition, in recent years, we have experienced a decline in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which has negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix. We are subject to competitive bidding situations, the outcome of which could negatively impact our sales and profits. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, both formal and informal, particularly within our Fresh Dairy Direct segment which has meaningfully reduced our sales volumes and profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In some cases, we have replaced lost volume with lower margin business, which also negatively impacts our profitability. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose these customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a lower cost, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. Increased competition with our branded products and the continued shift to private label products could impede our growth rate and profit margin. In recent years, growth in our business has primarily resulted from the strength of our nationally and internationally branded products, the majority of which are produced by our WhiteWave segment, and our regionally branded dairy products, which are produced by our Fresh Dairy Direct segment. We believe that WhiteWave’s brands have benefited in many cases from being the first products introduced in their categories, and their success has attracted competition from other food and beverage companies that produce branded products, as well as from private label competitors. Some of WhiteWave’s competitors have substantial financial and marketing resources. They may be able to introduce innovative products more quickly or market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than we have forecast and could cause us to lose sales. In addition, we are experiencing a continued shift from branded to private label products. Private label competitors are generally able to sell their products at lower prices because private label products typically have lower marketing costs than their branded competitors. In periods of economic weakness, consumers tend to purchase lower-priced products, including conventional milk, coffee creamers and other private label products, which could reduce sales of our branded products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin for our branded products. 16 Table of Contents If our products fail to compete successfully with other branded or private label offerings in the industry, demand for our products and our sales volumes could be negatively impacted. Product, Supply Chain and Systems Risks If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products could decline. Consumer tastes and preferences are difficult to predict and evolve over time. Demand for our products depends on our ability to identify and offer products that appeal to these shifting preferences. Factors that may affect consumer tastes and preferences include: • dietary trends and increased attention to nutritional values, such as the sugar, fat, protein, or calorie content of different foods and beverages; • concerns regarding the health effects of specific ingredients and nutrients, such as sugar, other sweeteners, dairy, soybeans, nuts, oils, vitamins, and minerals; • concerns regarding the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people; • increasing awareness of the environmental and social effects of product production; and • product attributes such as extended shelf life characteristics. If consumer demand for our products declines, our sales volumes and our business could be negatively affected. We may incur liabilities or harm to our reputation, or be forced to recall products as a result of real or perceived product quality or other product-related issues. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage, other adulteration, misbranding, or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, including environmental, health, and safety requirements, or in the event our products cause injury, illness, or death. In addition, our product advertising could make us the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including the consumer protection statutes of some states, or laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, we and WhiteWave were named in a putative class action mislabeling complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California in September 2011, which was followed by similar actions filed in six additional jurisdictions. All of these suits allege generally that we lack scientific substantiation for certain product claims related to our WhiteWave’s Horizon Organic products supplemented with DHA Omega-3. A significant product liability, consumer fraud, or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. Even if a product liability, consumer fraud, or other claim is found to be without merit or is otherwise unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories that are promoted as having strong health and wellness credentials. Any loss of consumer confidence in our product ingredients or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome. Disruption of our supply or distribution chains or transportation systems could adversely affect our business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, environmental incident, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture 17 Table of Contents or distribute our products. For example, the loss of any of Alpro’s distribution partners for local representation in Europe could negatively affect our business there. If we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or experience a security breach. We maintain a large database of confidential information in our information technology systems, including confidential employee and customer information. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology environment, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, security breaches or cyber incidents such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises. A security breach of such information could result in damage to our reputation, and could negatively impact our relations with our customers or employees. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Reduced availability of raw materials and other inputs, as well as increased costs for our raw materials and other inputs, could adversely affect us. Our business depends heavily on raw materials and other inputs, such as conventional and organic raw milk, sweeteners, petroleum-based products, almonds, organic and non-genetically modified (“non-GMO”) soybeans, butterfat, diesel fuel, resin, and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, our Fresh Dairy Direct segment is a large consumer of diesel fuel, and WhiteWave is affected by the costs of petroleum-based products through the use of common carriers and packaging. Our raw materials are generally sourced from third parties, and we are not assured of continued supply, pricing, or exclusive access to raw materials from any of these suppliers. In addition, a substantial portion of our raw materials are agricultural products, which are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frost, earthquakes, and pestilence. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters also can lower dairy and crop yields and reduce supplies of these ingredients or increase their prices. Other events that adversely affect our suppliers and that are out of our control could also impair our ability to obtain the raw materials and other inputs that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we desire. Such events include problems with our suppliers’ businesses, finances, labor relations, costs, production, insurance, and reputation. Over the past several years, we have experienced increased costs and this may continue given recent weather conditions, which may negatively affect our business. The organic ingredients (including milk, other dairy-related products, and soybeans) and non-GMO ingredients (including soybeans that we source exclusively from the United States and Canada) for our products are less plentiful and available from fewer suppliers, than their conventional counterparts. Competition with other manufacturers in the procurement of organic and non-GMO product ingredients may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic and non-GMO products increases. In addition, the dairy industry continues to experience periodic imbalances between supply and demand for organic raw milk, which can negatively affect availability and increase our costs. Industry regulation and the costs of organic farming compared to costs of conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. Oversupply levels of organic raw milk can increase competitive pressure on our products, while supply shortages can cause product shortages and higher costs to us. 18 Table of Contents Cost increases in raw materials and other inputs could cause our profits to decrease significantly compared to prior periods, as we may be unable to increase our prices to offset the increased cost of these raw materials and other inputs. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other inputs for our products or offset any increased costs for such raw materials and inputs, our business could be negatively affected. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile, and in the future may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described in this section and the following: • WhiteWave’s stock price and financial performance; • changes in financial estimates by analysts or our inability to meet those financial estimates; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • the potential tax-free spin-off or other distribution of all or a portion of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave to our stockholders and any resulting changes in our stock price or our inclusion in the S&P 500 Index as a result of such spin-off; • our ability to complete a reverse stock-split following the anticipated spin-off of all or a portion of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave or the impact of such split upon our stock price; • variations in our quarterly results of operations and those of our competitors; • general economic and stock market conditions; • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, geographies or customers; • terrorist acts; • perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives; • actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; and • speculation by the investment community regarding our business. In addition, the stock markets, including the NYSE, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. This volatility may increase the risk that our stockholders will suffer a loss in their investments or be unable to sell their shares or otherwise liquidate their holdings of our common stock. We may be required to write off or impair capitalized costs or intangible assets in the future or we may incur restructuring costs or other charges, each of which could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations or net worth. In response to anticipated lower sales volumes, competition and other market factors affecting Fresh Dairy Direct, we expect to implement cost reduction and restructuring plans in an effort to reduce the size and cost of 19 Table of Contents our Fresh Dairy Direct operations and to better match our resources with our market opportunities. As a result of such actions, we expect to incur restructuring expenses and other charges which may be material. Several factors could cause a restructuring to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and result in unintended employee attrition. Any restructuring would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. As of December 31, 2012, on a consolidated basis, we had $852 million of goodwill representing approximately 15% of our total assets, of which $87 million was associated with our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, $600 million was associated with our WhiteWave reporting unit and $165 million was associated with our Alpro reporting unit. We record goodwill initially at fair value and review its fair value for impairment at least annually, as of December 1, or on an interim basis if impairment indicators, such as disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating performance or sustained market capitalization declines, are present. A qualitative assessment of goodwill was performed for each of our reporting units during 2012. We assessed economic conditions and industry and market considerations, in addition to the overall financial performance of each of our reporting units. Based on the results of our assessment, we determined that it was not more likely than not that any of our reporting units had a carrying value in excess of its fair value. Accordingly, no further goodwill testing was completed, and we did not recognize any impairment charges related to goodwill during 2012. We can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results. See Note to 7 our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our goodwill and intangible assets. The continued economic decline may adversely impact our business and results of operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in international, national and local general economic conditions. The continued economic decline has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. High levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels and other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn adversely affects our results of operations. There can be no assurance that consumers will return to historical spending patterns. The costs of providing employee benefits have escalated, and liabilities under certain plans may be triggered due to our actions or the actions of others, which may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multiemployer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post-retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in recent years brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Our funded status as of December 31, 2012 decreased by $9.6 million from the prior year end and is still $92.3 million lower than our funded status at December 31, 2007, which was prior to the 2008 global financial crisis. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multiemployer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Facility closings may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans or multiemployer plans, and the costs of such liabilities 20 Table of Contents may compromise our ability to accelerate our cost reduction initiatives on time and within budget. In addition, certain actions or the financial condition of other companies which participate in multiemployer plans may create financial obligations for us, which circumstances are entirely out of our control. Future funding requirements, and related charges, associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2012, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $1.3 billion under our senior secured credit facility, of which $1.0 billion were in term loan borrowings, with an additional $265 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.0 billion senior secured revolving credit facility, all of which were repaid in full on January 3, 2013. In addition, we had $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our restricted subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: • Require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; • May limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; • Impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; • Expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations is at variable rates; and • Restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. In addition, investors may be apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Under our senior secured credit facility and our receivables-backed facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and receivables-backed facility. As of December 31, 2012, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 5.50 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2012, our leverage ratio was 3.54 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables-backed facility will decline to 5.25 times as of March 31, 2013, with an additional decrease to 4.50 times as of September 30, 2013 and thereafter. Failure to comply with the financial covenants, or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables-backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our senior secured leverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. In connection with its initial public offering, our subsidiary, WhiteWave , was designated as an unrestricted subsidiary under our senior secured credit facility. As such, WhiteWave and its subsidiaries were released as guarantors of our senior secured credit facility and our senior notes and were removed as participants in our receivables-backed facility. Accordingly, neither WhiteWave nor any of its subsidiaries are included in the 21 Table of Contents determination of consolidated EBITDA for purposes of the financial covenant calculations under our senior secured credit facility. In addition, WhiteWave entered into a credit agreement relating to its senior secured credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850 million for its revolving credit facility and its term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million. Dean Foods is not a guarantor of WhiteWave’s senior secured credit facility. The terms of WhiteWave’s senior secured credit facility limit its ability to provide us with cash, whether in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise and any such dividends, loans or other distributions to us would be in WhiteWave’s sole discretion and subject to then-existing contractual and other restrictions and other business considerations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is also dependent on our ability to renew our receivables-backed facility annually. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Current Debt Obligations” below for more information. Changes in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our future financing costs or the availability of capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. Our credit ratings are currently considered to be below “investment grade.” Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, such ratings or any further rating downgrades may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Legal and Regulatory Risks Pending antitrust lawsuits may have a material adverse impact on our business. We are the subject of two antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, divert management’s attention, and may result in significant judgments. In some cases, these awards would be trebled by statute and successful plaintiffs might be entitled to an award of attorney’s fees. Depending on its size, such a judgment could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and impair our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to pay such judgment or to post a bond for an appeal, given our financial condition and our available cash resources. In addition, depending on its size, failure to pay such a judgment or failure to post an appeal bond could cause us to breach certain provisions of our credit facilities. In either of these circumstances, we may seek a waiver of or amendment to the terms of our credit facilities, but there can be no assurance that such a waiver or amendment could be obtained. Failure to obtain such a waiver or amendment would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could impair our ability to continue operations. Moreover, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and/or customer preference for our products. In addition, merger and acquisition activities are subject to these antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions. 22 Table of Contents The dairy industry has been subject to increased government scrutiny which could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to antitrust and other competition laws in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will impact us. In recent years, the dairy industry was the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the Obama administration initiated a review of existing dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. The U.S. farm bill, the primary tool regulating federal dairy policy, has been reauthorized through September 30, 2013; however, future reauthorization is uncertain. The farm bill includes the Dairy Product Price Support Program, which currently is set to expire on December 31, 2013. This federal and congressional review process may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate or control and that may have a material adverse impact on our business. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and have a negative impact on our reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor disputes could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 39% of Fresh Dairy Direct’s and 41% of WhiteWave’s employees participated in collective bargaining agreements or had works council representation. Our collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire at various times over the next 4 years. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. Our business is subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which may increase our compliance costs or subject us to liabilities. Our business operations are subject to numerous requirements in the United States and the European Union relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and the National Organic Standards of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, as well as similar state and local statutes and regulations in the United States and in each of the countries in which we do business in Europe. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions and the discharge of wastewater and other pollutants, the use of refrigerants, the handling and disposal of hazardous materials, and the cleanup of contamination in the environment. We could incur significant costs, including fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury as a result of the failure to comply with, or liabilities under, environmental, health, and safety requirements. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances, or curtail operations. These costs could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards, including those of non-US jurisdictions, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. In addition, WhiteWave has operations outside of the United States, which may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and compliance with foreign rules and regulations. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. Violations of laws or regulations related to the food industry, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations related to the food industry, could adversely affect our business. The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling, and distribution of our products, as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. We are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), and the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, as well as by similar authorities abroad within the regulatory framework of the European Union and its members. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration, and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In particular, throughout 2010 and 2011, the dairy industry was the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the Obama administration initiated a review of existing federal dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. The U.S. farm bill, the primary tool regulating federal dairy policy, has been reauthorized through September 30, 2013; however, future reauthorization is uncertain. The farm bill includes the Dairy Product Price Support Program, which currently is set to expire on December 31, 2013. The federal agency and congressional review process, and legislative activity in connection with the farm bill, may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate or control and that may have a negative effect on our business. In addition, the marketing and advertising of our products could make us the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, and we may be subject to initiatives that limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. We also comply with federal laws and regulations relating to our organic products and production. For example, as required by the National Organic Program (“NOP”), we rely on third parties to certify certain of our products and production locations as organic. Because the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, which created the NOP, is so young, many regulations and informal positions taken by the NOP are subject to continued review and scrutiny. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase our compliance costs, increase other costs of doing business for us, our customers, or our suppliers, or restrict our actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In some cases, increased regulatory scrutiny could interrupt distribution of our products, as could be the case in the United States as the FDA enacts the recently-passed Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, or force changes in our production processes and our products. Further, if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 Table of Contents Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for WhiteWave’s liabilities, including liabilities that WhiteWave has assumed from us. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for WhiteWave’s liabilities, including any of the liabilities that WhiteWave agreed to retain or assume in connection with the WhiteWave IPO and the separation of its business from our businesses. Pursuant to our agreements with WhiteWave, WhiteWave has agreed to indemnify us for claims and losses relating to certain liabilities that it has assumed from us. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that WhiteWave will have the ability to satisfy its obligations to us. If WhiteWave is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy these obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to the Potential Disposition of Our Remaining Ownership Interest in WhiteWave A spin-off or other disposition of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave may adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition, or we may not be able to complete a spin-off. On October 31, 2012, WhiteWave completed the WhiteWave IPO. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the WhiteWave IPO. We have also announced our intention to effect a tax-free spin-off or other tax-free disposition of a significant portion of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave to our stockholders in May 2013. In connection with the proposed spin-off or other disposition of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave: • our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the proposed spin-off or other disposition or other action or market speculation regarding the proposed spin-off or other disposition • our financial results may be harmed, and our ability to execute effectively upon our business plans may be affected adversely, because of the competing demands on management’s time and attention; • we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; • we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with the need to retain and compensate third party consultants and advisors (including legal counsel); • we may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships or arrangements with customers, key suppliers, and other parties; and • subsequent to any spin-off or other disposition that results in us owning less than a controlling financial interest in WhiteWave, our financial results will no longer be consolidated with WhiteWave’s financial results and we will report WhiteWave’s operating results as discontinued operations, which we expect will materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Any such spin-off or other distribution would be subject to various conditions, including the receipt of any necessary regulatory or other approvals, the existence of satisfactory market conditions and in the case of a spin-off or other tax-free disposition, our maintenance of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and/or an opinion of counsel that our contribution of WWF Operating Company to WhiteWave, and such tax-free spin-off or other disposition, taken together, would be tax free to us and our stockholders. There can be no assurance as to when the proposed spin-off or other disposition will be completed, if at all. Any spin-off or other disposition of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave could result in significant tax liability to us. We have received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, subject to certain conditions, our contribution of the capital stock of WWF Operating Company to WhiteWave, the spin-off of shares of 25 Table of Contents WhiteWave common stock to our stockholders and certain other potential dispositions of WhiteWave common stock, taken together, would be tax free to us and our stockholders and that accordingly, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, no gain or loss will be recognized by, and no amount will be included in the income of, a holder of Dean Foods common stock upon the receipt of shares of WhiteWave common stock pursuant to any such spin-off, except to the extent such holder receives cash in lieu of fractional shares of WhiteWave common stock. Even though we have received a private letter ruling from the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling. In addition, because there are certain legal issues in such transactions on which the IRS refuses to issue rulings, we intend to supplement any private letter ruling we receive from the IRS with an opinion from our outside tax advisors on those issues. Any such tax opinion, however, would not be binding on the IRS. If the contribution, spin-off and other dispositions described above, taken together, do not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, upon completion of a spin-off of WhiteWave common stock by Dean Foods, Dean Foods would recognize gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the distributed WhiteWave common stock over its tax basis in the distributed WhiteWave common stock. Our stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of the WhiteWave common stock that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of our earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each stockholder’s tax basis in our common stock, and thereafter as capital gain with respect to the remaining value. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to us and our stockholders would be substantial. In addition, even if these transactions otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be subject to corporate income tax if any shares of WhiteWave common stock that we retain following any such spin-off are not disposed of in a qualifying manner. The tax rules applicable to a tax-free spin-off may restrict us from engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital beyond certain thresholds for a period of time after any tax-free spin-off or other tax-free disposition of our remaining ownership interest in WhiteWave. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that a spin-off of WhiteWave would be taxable to us, but not our stockholders, if such spin-off is part of a “plan or series of related transactions” pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in us or WhiteWave. Acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. U.S. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the U.S. Treasury regulations. In addition, the U.S. Treasury regulations provide several “safe harbors” for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan. These rules will limit our ability during the two-year period following any spin-off to enter into certain transactions that may be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, disposing of certain assets, engaging in mergers and acquisitions, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. To preserve the tax-free treatment of any spin-off to us and our stockholders, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with WhiteWave in connection with the WhiteWave IPO, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take (or permitting any of our subsidiaries, other than WhiteWave and its subsidiaries, to take or fail to take) any action where such action or failure to act would be inconsistent with any material, information, covenant or representation that relates to facts or matters related to Dean Foods (or any of our subsidiaries, other than WhiteWave and its subsidiaries) or our business or within our control and is contained in any representation letter related to the private letter ruling or tax opinion (or any supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinion that may be necessary) mentioned above. This restriction may limit our ability to pursue 26 Table of Contents strategic transactions of a certain magnitude that involve the issuance or acquisition of our stock or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business. This restriction may also limit our ability to raise significant amounts of cash through the issuance of stock, especially if our stock price were to suffer substantial declines, or through the sale of certain of our assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 