Risk Factors Competitive Risks Volume Softness in the Dairy Category Has Had a Negative Impact on Our Sales and Profits. Industry-wide volume softness across dairy product categories continued in 2011. In particular, the fluid milk category has experienced declining volumes over the past several years. Decreasing dairy category volume has increased the impact of declining margins on our business. Periods of declining volumes limit the amount of price increases that we can seek to recapture. We expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future, which could further negatively affect our business. In addition, during 2010 and 2011, we experienced a decline in historical volumes from some of our largest customers, which has negatively impacted our sales and profitability and which will continue to have a negative impact in the future if we are not able to attract and retain a profitable customer mix. We are Subject to Competitive Bidding Situations, the Outcome of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current economic climate, which has intensified the competitive environment in which we operate. As a result of the intensely competitive dairy environment, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations, both formal and informal, particularly within Fresh Dairy Direct and Morningstar, which has reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend of competitive bidding to continue. In some cases, we have replaced lost volume with lower margin business, which also negatively impacts our profitability. If we are unable to structure our business to appropriately respond to the pricing demands of our customers, we may lose these customers to other processors that are willing to sell product at a lower cost, which could negatively impact our sales and profits. 14 Table of Contents Continued Price Concessions on Fluid Milk to Large Format Retailers, and the Continued Shift to Private Label, Has Decreased Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have experienced industry consolidation in recent years and this consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power, and have increased the significance of large-format retailers and discounters. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, which have significant bargaining power. In addition, some of these customers are vertically integrated and have re-dedicated key shelf-space currently occupied by our regionally branded products for their private label products. Higher levels of price competition and higher resistance to price increases have had a significant impact on our business. During 2011, retailers continued to push suppliers for lower prices, which decreased our margins. In addition, the fluid milk category continued to experience low pricing on private label milk during 2011. As a result, we are experiencing a continued shift from branded to private label products, as economically stressed consumers choose private label products over more expensive regional brands. If we are not able to lower our cost structure adequately, our profitability could continue to be adversely affected by the decrease in margin. Increased Competition With Our Nationally and Internationally Branded Products and Continued Economic Weakness Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Profit Margin. In recent years, growth in our business has primarily resulted from the strength of our nationally and internationally branded products. Our brands such as Silk, Horizon Organic, LAND O LAKES, International Delight, Alpro and Provamel have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As plant-based, organic and coffee-enhancing products have gained in popularity with consumers, our products in these categories have attracted competitors, including private label competitors who sell their products at a lower price. In addition, our branded products typically have higher marketing costs than our regionally branded or private label products, which could negatively impact the profitability of this segment of our business. In periods of economic weakness, consumers tend to purchase lower-priced products, including conventional milk, coffee creamers and other private label products, which could reduce sales of our branded products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Further trade down to lower priced products could adversely affect our sales and profit margin for our branded products. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their products more successfully than we can, which could cause our growth rate in certain categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. Some of our branded products compete intensely for consumer spend. If our branded products fail to compete successfully with other branded offerings in the marketplace, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted. The Loss of Any of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during 2011. During 2011, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 28% of our consolidated net sales. We do not generally enter into written agreements with our customers, and where such agreements exist, they are generally terminable at will by the customer. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. Commodity Risks Availability of and Changes in Raw Materials and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Our business is heavily dependent on raw materials such as conventional and organic raw milk, butterfat, diesel fuel, resin, soybeans and other commodities. In addition to our dependence on conventional and organic raw milk, our Fresh Dairy Direct segment is a large consumer of diesel fuel, and Morningstar and WhiteWave-Alpro are affected by the costs of petroleum-based products through the use of common carriers and packaging. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on market conditions, and in some cases, governmental regulation. Weather, including the heightened impact of weather events related to climate change, also affects the availability and pricing of these inputs. Sometimes supplies of raw materials, such as resin, have been insufficient to meet demand. Volatility in the cost of our raw materials, particularly diesel fuel and other non-dairy inputs, has adversely affected our profitability as upward price changes often lag changes in costs we charge our customers. In some cases the price increases of these non-dairy inputs may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers due to contractual and other limitations. In periods of rapid movements in dairy commodities, our ability to pass-through costs is impaired due to the timing of passing through the price increases. These lags and limitations have periodically decreased our profit margins in inflationary markets. In addition, raw material cost fluctuations from year to year can cause our revenues to increase or decrease significantly compared to prior periods. Raw milk and bulk cream are the primary ingredients in many of Morningstar’s products. The pass-through mechanism for butterfat and bulk cream inputs differs from the fluid milk pricing mechanism in that Morningstar’s products are generally priced before input costs are known. Morningstar works to pass through changes in butterfat and bulk cream costs through a mix of forecast pricing, true-up pricing and the direct, but lagged, pass-through of cost changes. As a result, rapid increases in butterfat and bulk cream prices can have a substantial impact on Morningstar’s profitability from period to period. In addition, Morningstar sets pricing for non-dairy inputs with the majority of its customers annually and generally lacks the ability to pass through increases in these inputs to those customers. This pricing method may further negatively impact Morningstar’s profitability in periods of inflationary costs. 15 Table of Contents The organic dairy industry is continuing to develop in terms of consumer acceptance and market penetration, and, as a result, continues to experience significant swings in supply and demand. Industry regulation, and the costs of organic farming compared to prices paid for conventional farming can impact the supply of organic raw milk in the market. An oversupply of organic raw milk can cause significant discounting in the sale of organic packaged milk, which increases competitive pressure on our branded products and could cause our profitability to suffer. An undersupply or higher input costs can increase the cost and availability of organic raw milk, which can cause product shortages or retail price gaps between private label and branded products to expand, potentially decreasing our volumes and adversely affecting our results. We experienced a tightening of organic milk supply during the fourth quarter of 2011, which increased costs, impacted availability of organic milk and negatively impacted our sales volume of organic milk. In 2012, we expect the organic milk supply challenges to continue, which may continue to pressure our costs and impact our volume sales of organic milk. In addition, the impact of retail price gaps may be compounded by the current economic environment as consumers become increasingly focused on product pricing. Moreover, consumers may choose to purchase conventional milk instead of organic milk due to differences in cost, which could further decrease our volumes and results. Capital Markets and General Economic Risks We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $2.5 billion under our senior secured credit facility, of which $2.4 billion were in term loan borrowings with an additional $100 million in outstanding borrowings under our $1.5 billion senior secured revolving line of credit. In addition, we had $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding and $260 million outstanding under our receivables-backed facility at December 31, 2011. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: • Require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; • May limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions or funding our strategic growth plan; • Impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; • Expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations is at variable rates; and • Restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. In addition, investors may be apprehensive about investing in companies such as ours that carry a substantial amount of leverage on their balance sheets, and this apprehension may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum senior secured leverage, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and receivables-backed facility. As of December 31, 2011, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 5.75 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2011, our leverage ratio was 4.64 times. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables-backed facility will decline to 5.50 times as of March 31, 2012. Failure to comply with the financial covenants, or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables-backed facility. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our senior secured leverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Throughout 2011, Fresh Dairy Direct experienced significant pricing pressures from our retail customers, as well as volume declines, and despite improved operating profit performance from our other segments and continued cost reductions, our overall operating profitability decreased. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the future is dependent on our ability to renew our receivables-backed facility annually. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Current Debt Obligations” below for more information. The Costs of Providing Employee Benefits Have Escalated, and Liabilities Under Certain Plans May be Triggered Due to Our Actions or the Actions of Others, Which May Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Liquidity. We sponsor various defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans, as well as contribute to various multiemployer plans on behalf of our employees. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post-retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. Recent changes in federal laws require plan sponsors to eliminate, over defined time periods, the underfunded status of plans that are subject to ERISA rules and regulations. In addition, turmoil in the financial markets in recent years brought significant declines in the fair market value of the equity and debt instruments that we hold within our defined benefit master trust to settle future defined benefit plan obligations. Our funded status as of December 31, 2011 decreased by $23.0 million from the prior year end and is still $78.6 million lower than our funded status at December 31, 2007, which was prior to the 2008 global financial crisis. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our defined benefit retirement plans, as well as many of the multiemployer plans in which we participate, are less than fully funded. Facility closings may trigger cash payments or previously unrecognized obligations under our defined benefit retirement plans or multiemployer plans. In addition, certain actions or the financial condition of other companies which participate in multiemployer plans may create financial obligations for us, which circumstances are entirely out of our control. Future funding requirements, and related charges, associated with multiemployer plans in which we participate could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Continued Economic Decline May Adversely Impact Our Business and Results of Operations. The dairy industry is sensitive to changes in international, national and local general economic conditions. The continued economic decline has had an adverse effect on consumer spending patterns. High levels of unemployment, high consumer debt levels and other unfavorable economic factors could further adversely affect consumer demand for products we sell or distribute, which in turn adversely affects our results of operations. There can be no assurance that consumers will return to historical spending patterns. Changes in Our Credit Ratings May Have a Negative Impact on Our Future Financing Costs or the Availability of Capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. Our credit ratings are currently considered to be below “investment grade.” Although the interest rate on our existing credit facilities is not affected by changes in our credit ratings, such ratings or any further rating downgrades may impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, may cause the value of our securities to decline and may have other negative implications with respect to our business. Ratings reflect only the views of the ratings agency issuing the rating, are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency issuing the rating. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Impairment in the Carrying Value of Goodwill Has Negatively Impacted, and Future Goodwill Impairments Could Negatively Impact, Our Consolidated Results of Operations and Net Worth. In the third quarter of 2011, as a result of an interim test of the goodwill of our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, we concluded the implied fair value of our Fresh Dairy Direct goodwill was less than its carrying value. Accordingly, we recorded a $2.1 billion non-cash charge ($1.6 billion net of tax) in 2011 to reflect the impairment. As of December 31, 2011, on a consolidated basis, we had $1.2 billion of goodwill representing approximately 20% of our total assets, of which $87 million was associated with our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit, $600 million was associated with our WhiteWave reporting unit, $162 million was associated with our Alpro reporting unit and $306 million was associated with our Morningstar reporting unit. We record goodwill initially at fair value and review its fair value for impairment at least annually, as of December 1, or on an interim basis if impairment indicators, such as disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating performance or sustained market capitalization declines, are present. We assessed each of our reporting units for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2011 in connection with our annual impairment test and concluded there was no goodwill impairment for our WhiteWave, Morningstar or Alpro reporting units and no additional goodwill impairment for our Fresh Dairy Direct reporting unit. We can provide no assurance that we will not have an impairment charge in future periods as a result of changes in our operating results. 17 Table of Contents In assessing the fair value of our reporting units, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, growth rates, our cost of capital and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors and different assumptions could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. Any such impairment would result in our recognizing a non-cash charge, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Strategic Risks We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Cost Reduction Efforts as Expected. We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to carefully evaluate future investments in our business, and concentrate on those areas with the most potential return on investment. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Product, Supply Chain and Systems Risks We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes, dietary preferences and purchasing habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment, and we may fail to realize anticipated returns on such investments due to lack of consumer acceptance of such products. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we continue to invest in research and development in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global companies with greater resources that compete with us in the health and wellness space. In addition, as consumers become increasingly aware of the environmental and social impacts of the products they purchase, their preferences and purchasing decisions may change. If our products fail to meet changing consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our product strategy may not succeed. We May Experience Liabilities or Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Product Issues, Such as Product Recalls. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation and brand image, particularly in categories such as fluid milk that have strong health and wellness credentials. 18 Table of Contents Disruption of Our Supply Chain or Transportation Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and/or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent that we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. In addition, we are subject to federal motor carrier regulations, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, with which our extensive DSD system must comply. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in our inability to deliver product to our customers in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results. Our Business Operations Could be Disrupted if Our Information Technology Systems Fail to Perform Adequately or Experience a Security Breach. We maintain a large database of confidential information in our information technology systems, including confidential employee and customer information. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, security breaches or cyber incidents such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises. A security breach of such information could result in damage to our reputation, and could negatively impact our relations with our customers or employees. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. Legal and Regulatory Risks Pending Antitrust Lawsuits May have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are the subject of several antitrust lawsuits, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. Increased scrutiny of the dairy industry has resulted, and may continue to result, in litigation against us. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, divert management’s attention, and may result in significant judgments. In some cases, these awards would be trebled by statute and successful plaintiffs might be entitled to an award of attorney’s fees. Depending on its size, such a judgment could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and impair our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to pay such judgment or to post a bond for an appeal, given our financial condition and our available cash resources. In addition, depending on its size, failure to pay such a judgment or failure to post an appeal bond could cause us to breach certain provisions of our credit facilities. In either of these circumstances, we may seek a waiver of or amendment to the terms of our credit facilities, but there can be no assurance that such a waiver or amendment could be obtained. Failure to obtain such a waiver or amendment would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could impair our ability to continue operations. Moreover, these actions could expose us to negative publicity, which might adversely affect our brands, reputation and/or customer preference for our products. In addition, merger and acquisition activities are subject to these antitrust and competition laws, which have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to pursue strategic transactions. The Dairy Industry in Which We Operate Has Been Subject to Increased Government Scrutiny Which Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business. We are subject to antitrust and other competition laws in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will impact us. Throughout 2010 and 2011, the dairy industry was the subject of increased government scrutiny. In 2010, the Obama administration initiated a review of existing dairy policies in order to consider potential changes to those policies. In 2012, we expect re-authorization of the nation’s farm bill, which is the primary tool regulating federal dairy policy. This federal and congressional review process, and legislative activity in connection with the farm bill, may result in changes to the dairy industry that we cannot anticipate or control and that may have a material adverse impact on our business. 19 Table of Contents Litigation or Legal Proceedings Could Expose Us to Significant Liabilities and Have a Negative Impact on Our Reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. Labor Disputes Could Adversely Affect Us. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 39% of Fresh Dairy Direct’s, 26% of WhiteWave-Alpro’s and 46% of Morningstar’s employees participated in collective bargaining agreements. At any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could possibly lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. A strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest could in some cases impair our ability to supply our products to customers, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims. Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards, Including Those of Non-US Jurisdictions, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. In addition, we have operations outside of the United States, which may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and compliance with foreign rules and regulations. Any or all of these risks could adversely impact our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 