Item 1A. Risk Factors We Have Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations and We May Incur Even More Debt. We have substantial debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. See “Part II Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As a result of the recapitalization of our balance sheet on April 2, 2007, we entered into a new $4.8 billion senior secured credit facility. This transaction significantly increased our leverage profile and interest expense. Our debt level and related debt service obligations: • require us to dedicate significant cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes; • may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; 12 Table of Contents • impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; • expose us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and • restrict our ability to fund acquisitions. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants, including, but not limited to, maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. Throughout 2007, significant increases in raw material and other input costs, as well as the oversupply of raw organic milk, increased our working capital requirements, decreased our operating profitability, and limited our ability in the near term to reduce the borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations and comply with financial covenants depends on our financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance will continue to be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. As of December 31, 2007, our maximum permitted leverage ratio was 6.25 times consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters, each as defined under and calculated in accordance with the terms of our senior credit facility and our receivables facility. As of December 31, 2007, our leverage ratio was 5.95. The maximum permitted leverage ratio under both the senior secured credit facility and the receivables facility will decline to 5.75 as of December 31, 2008. Failure to comply with the leverage ratio, or any other financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our senior secured credit facility and under our receivables facility. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including the assets of our subsidiaries) to secure our indebtedness. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. In addition, we may be required to amend our credit facility, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. Further, our actual performance levels under this reduced leverage ratio or our other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. Changes in Our Credit Ratings May Have a Negative Impact on Our Financing Cost or the Availability of Capital. Some of our debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, and there are a number of factors beyond our control with respect to these ratings. During 2007, in response to our increased leverage and the difficult dairy operating environment, both Standard & poor’s and Moody’s downgraded our debt ratings. A further downgrade could increase our cost of capital and reduce our access to financial markets. Availability and Changes in Raw Material and Other Input Costs Can Adversely Affect Us. Raw skim milk is the most significant raw material that we use in our Dairy Group. Organic raw milk, organic soybeans and sugar are significant inputs utilized by WhiteWave. The prices of these materials increase and decrease based on supply and demand, and in some cases, governmental regulation. In 2007, we experienced rapidly rising, all time-high prices in conventional raw milk prices. A declining dollar, constraints on global dairy supply growth and rising global demand for dairy-based protein combined to sharply increase foreign demand for U.S.-produced non-fat dry milk powder. This export demand drove prices for raw conventional milk sharply higher in 2007. The rising milk prices increased our costs from shrink, as lost product became more costly. At the same time, the pricing dynamics in the dairy industry resulted in sharply reduced profit contribution from our sales of excess cream to third parties. There continues to be significant volatility in the pricing of conventional raw milk and we anticipate that volatility to continue throughout 2008. In many cases we are able to adjust our pricing to reflect changes in raw material costs; however, volatility in the cost of our raw materials can adversely affect our performance and erode our profit margins as price changes often lag changes in costs. Furthermore, cost increases may exceed the price increases we are able to pass along to our customers. While we currently expect conventional raw milk prices to decline in 2008 from the levels experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007, we expect the prices to remain higher than in past periods. High raw material costs can put downward pressure on our margins and our volumes. In the past, the industry-wide demand for organic raw milk has generally exceeded supply, resulting in our inability to fully meet customer demand. However, strong economic incentives for conventional farmers to become 13 Table of Contents organic plus a change in the organic farm transition rules caused supply to increase significantly in 2007. This oversupply led to significant discounting and aggressive distribution expansion by processors in an effort to sell their supply in the organic milk market. The market for organic raw milk is currently very dynamic and is beginning to shift back to an undersupply situation, with some farmers moving back to conventional due to high feed costs and attractive prices being paid for conventional milk. These factors could increase costs and cause our sales of Horizon Organic to decline as consumers look for lower cost alternatives. Uncertainties surrounding organic milk supply, increased costs associated with organic farming, and competitive pressures could continue to negatively impact the profitability of our WhiteWave segment. Because our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to customers through its “direct store delivery” system, we are a large consumer of fuel. Similarly, WhiteWave is impacted by the costs of petroleum-based products through the use of common carriers in delivering their products. We also utilize a significant amount of resin, which is the primary component used in our plastic bottles. During 2007, the prices of resin decreased slightly, while diesel prices were largely unchanged. Future increases in fuel and resin prices may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, resin supplies have from time to time been insufficient to meet demand. A disruption in our ability to secure an adequate resin supply could adversely affect our operations. We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits from Our Multi-Year Initiatives. We have several multi-year initiatives underway, which we believe are necessary in order to position our business for future success and growth. These initiatives include the following: centralizing certain of our functions, including our finance and analytical systems; and optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Over the next several years, these initiatives will require investments in people, systems, tools and facilities. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and better serve our customers. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives, or fail to implement them as timely as we anticipate, we could become cost disadvantaged in the market place, lose customers and experience declines in market share. Centralization of certain functions. We are currently realigning certain functions of our business in order to further streamline our organization, improve efficiency and better meet the needs of our customers. These initiatives involve centralizing certain of our purchasing, selling, support and decision making and brand building activities, which we anticipate will enable us to more effectively and efficiently manage our business. Our failure to successfully manage these transitions could cause us to incur unexpected costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the impact of these actions on our earnings growth and profitability may be influenced by factors including but not limited to: (1) our ability to retain and attract key employees and operating officers; (2) our ability to execute these initiatives in a cost effective manner; (3) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers; and (4) our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with our suppliers. Realignment of our financial and analytical systems. In 2007, we centralized many of the administrative functions that were historically accomplished at the plant level into regional accounting and transaction centers, which we anticipate will increase quality, capability, and standardization across the business. However, we must continue to improve and standardize our systems and processes to deliver the data we need to accurately analyze, plan and forecast our business and capitalize on opportunities. Optimizing our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Due to the perishable nature of its products, our Dairy Group delivers the majority of its products directly to its customers’ stores in refrigerated trucks or trailers that we own or lease. This form of delivery is called a “direct store delivery” or “DSD” system. We believe that our DSD system is one of the most extensive refrigerated DSD systems in the United States. We also have an extensive network of manufacturing plants across the country. These plants and their related distribution systems were acquired by us over time and are not yet designed or configured to fully maximize productivity and efficiency. We are evaluating our entire supply chain and anticipate over the next several years that we will realign our manufacturing and distribution capabilities and will close additional facilities. However, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to streamline and upgrade our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, we could be faced with unrealized profit potential through waste and inefficiency, leaving us vulnerable to technological obsolescence, low returns on our capital investments, and a decline in our profitability. 14 Table of Contents We Must Identify Changing Consumer Preferences and Develop and Offer Innovative Products to Meet Their Preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. Currently, we believe consumers are trending toward health and wellness beverages. Although we have increased our innovation efforts and spend in order to capitalize on this trend, there are currently several global competitors with greater resources with whom we compete in these areas. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, the return on our investment in those areas will be less than anticipated and our innovation strategy will not succeed. Our Business is Subject to Various Environmental Laws, Which May Increase Our Compliance Costs. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental and other air pollution control laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Clean Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, as well as state and local statutes. These laws and regulations cover the discharge of pollutants, wastewater, and hazardous materials into the environment. In addition, various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered or implemented at the federal and state levels. New legislation, as well as current federal and other state regulatory initiatives relating to these environmental matters, could require us to replace equipment, install additional pollution controls, purchase various emission allowances or curtail operations. These costs could adversely affect our results. The Consolidation of Retail Customers May Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins and Profitability. Our customers such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. Some of these customers are vertically integrated and may use shelf space currently used for our products for their private label products. In addition, our large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. The Loss of One of Our Largest Customers Could Negatively Impact Our Sales and Profits. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Sam’s Club, accounted for approximately 17.9% of consolidated net sales during 2007, consisting of 18.5% of the Dairy Group’s net sales and 14.1% of WhiteWave’s net sales. During 2007, our top five customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 30.0% of our consolidated net sales, or approximately 31.2% of the Dairy Group’s net sales and 23.4% of WhiteWave’s net sales. The loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. In addition, we do not have agreements with many of our largest customers, and most of the agreements that we do have are generally terminable at will by the customer. Finally, many of our retail customers have become increasingly price sensitive in the current intensely competitive environment. Over the past few years, we have been subject to a number of competitive bidding situations in our Dairy Group, which reduced our profitability on sales to several customers. We expect this trend to continue. In bidding situations, we are subject to the risk of losing certain customers altogether. Our Products Could Attract Increased Competitive Activity, Which Could Impede Our Growth Rate and Cost Us Sales. Our Silk soymilk and Horizon Organic organic food and beverage products have leading market shares in their categories and have benefited in many cases from being the first to introduce products in their categories. As soy and organic products continue to gain in popularity with consumers, we expect our products in these categories to continue to attract competitors. Many large food and beverage companies have substantially more resources than we do, and they may be able to market their soy and organic products more successfully than us, which could cause our growth rate in these categories to be slower than our forecast and could cause us to lose sales. The increase in popularity of soy and organic milks is also attracting private label competitors who sell their products at a lower 15 Table of Contents price. The success of private label brands could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products providing the right consumer benefits at the right price. Furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other lower-priced products, which could result in a reduction of sales of our branded products. Our International Delight coffee creamer competes intensely with Nestlé CoffeeMate® business. Our failure to successfully compete with Nestlé could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our International Delight® business. We May Experience Liabilities or Negative Effects on Our Reputation as a Result of Product Recalls, Product Injuries or Other Legal Claims. We sell products for human consumption, which involves a number of legal risks. Product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. We also may be subject to liability if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. The Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits. We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as Borden, LAND O’LAKES, Pet, and others. In some cases, we have invested significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations, may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Pension Costs Could Increase at a Higher Than Anticipated Rate. Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans. This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements of our plans. Pension and post-retirement costs also may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions including anticipated rates of return on plan assets and the discount rates used in determining the projected benefit obligation and annual periodic pension costs. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Disruption of Our Supply Chain Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Damage or disruption to our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes, the financial and/or operational instability of key suppliers, distributors, warehousing and transportation providers, or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or distribute our products. To the extent the we are unable, or it is not financially feasible, to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, there could be an adverse affect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 